We are living in the era where we NEED internet in our daily lives and daily activities. With so many service providers, it becomes a struggle to figure out what is the best option to buy. If you want the best connection possible, you should choose fibre as your connection of choice. Fibre uses optical cables to carry data via light, which makes it the fastest internet you can get – up to 50 times faster than the fastest ADSL connection available in South Africa. With the improved bandwidth throughput of fibre you’ll also have a more stable connection with lower latency. And, because fibre uses light instead of electrical pulses, it’s weather resistant and doesn’t degrade over large distances – giving you consistent, fast internet and a dependable experience. We live in a digital world, with more devices in our homes every single day – and normal broadband solutions struggle to support the increased demand on your internet connection. With fast fibre, you can connect more devices at better speeds than ever before, meaning you can enjoy reliable, fast internet connectivity in every room of the house. Another benefit of using fibre is that you don’t need a telephone line to get connected. This means that you’ll save hundreds every month because you’re not paying for a phone line (which you probably don’t use anyway) just to connect to the internet. You also don’t have to worry about copper cable theft ever again. Finally, don’t forget the entertainment benefits! With fibre, say goodbye to constant buffering thanks to smooth, fast connectivity – allowing you to enjoy HD or 4K content at your fingertips, even if multiple people are using the internet at the same time. And with super‑low latency, you can take gaming to a whole new level too. Play with the best internet and be the best at your game! But why Innovo? Innovo is an expert in the technology field. They’ve been offering industry leading products and exceptional service for over 10 years, and having won various awards over the years, they can guarantee people just like you have trusted them to deliver the best internet experience available in South Africa. It’s highly unlikely, but if for some reason you’re not 100% happy with their products or customer service, their support team is live 24/7. Connect with them over a dedicated WhatsApp business number as well for immediate response. Get the best customer experience with Innovo’s amazing service. You’ll never have to wait until office hours to get help. We offer 24/7 support and our friendly, competent support team are always ready to assist you with any issue you might have. Sign up to Innovo’s fibre products here. This article was published in partnership with Innovo Networks.