Abuse of MTN’s free Twitter usage was not the main reason the operator finally shut it down, MTN SA executive for corporate affairs Jacqui O’Sullivan has told MyBroadband. Rather it was the fact that Twitter was naturally consuming more data than when the promotion first launched four years ago. MTN launched a promotion in May 2014 to give subscribers who loaded data products free access to Twitter. The promotion was originally set to run for 90 days — from 1 May to 31 July 2014. It proved popular and MTN kept extending it until 14 June 2017 when, out of the blue, the mobile network operator tried to impose limits on its free Twitter promotion for the first time. “Due to abuse, we’ve had to cap our free Twitter service to 100MB per day. Normal data charges will apply thereafter,” MTN said in a tweet which appears to have since been deleted. The reaction was swift and ruthless. A day later, MTN increased the free Twitter cap from 100MB to 500MB per day, placating its irate customers. Just over a year later, on 16 July 2018, MTN announced that it needed to hike the prices of recently-introduced WhatsApp data bundles to protect the integrity of its 3G network from the flood of traffic the bundles caused. Along with the announcement of the WhatsApp bundle price increase, MTN also mentioned that it was seeing abuse of its free Twitter service. “We are seeing huge files and videos being transferred, resulting in excessive usage. Our focus is to protect the network experience of millions of customers who engage with this service,” MTN said. The statement caused a wave of panic among users of MTN’s 500MB free Twitter data offer, who were concerned that their favourite promotion would be next on the chopping block. Panic was followed by fear-mongering, with people tweeting misinformation about the imminent shutdown of free Twitter. MTN posted reassurances to subscribers on Twitter, and its 500MB of free data per day promotion for the social network remained in place until 22 September, when it finally brought the promotion to an end. In July, MTN said it reviewed the Twitter activity of its mobile subscribers and it found that 99.1% of all Twitter users on its network consumed under 500MB per day, with 80% using less than 10MB per day. “MTN experienced a 300% increase in activity in the past two months and it believes less than 1% of the current user base are greatly exceeding 500MB per day,” said MTN. “Certain users are consuming many GBs per day, which would only be possible by abusing the service through hacking and tunnelling activities.” At the time, MTN declined to divulge further details about the hacking and tunnelling activities, as it did not want to exacerbate the exploitative behaviour. However, the company has since told MyBroadband that the instances of tunnelling and other hacking activities were not what caused the ultimate demise of free Twitter. “In the instance of free Twitter in 2017, we shut down a few examples of tunnelling,” O’Sullivan told MyBroadband. “However, the key concern with this promotional offering was that due to the changing nature of Twitter over the four years that it was active, it began to generate excessive amounts of data due to the nature of traffic changing from initially text to multimedia.” During August, MTN had over 13 million Twitter users on its network, who together generated 1.9 petabytes of data per month.