Black Friday will take place on 23 November 2018, and while it is primarily a US phenomenon, South Africa is bracing itself for a large number of specials. South African shoppers went crazy for Black Friday deals last year, especially over high-end technology products such as TVs and smartphones. Technology and PC hardware fans are also in for a busy day, with many major technology stores offering discounts on a range of products, from graphics cards to drones. MyBroadband spoke to a large selection of online tech stores to determine whether they would be hosting Black Friday sales. PC Link Computers told MyBroadband it would host a sale over a few days for Black Friday. “We have negotiated with our suppliers and have arranged massive savings on most of our items,” PC Link Computers said. The company added it will host its Black Friday Sale from Thursday until Monday to accommodate customers who will only be paid on 25 November. “We will be running specials on a number of items, but we are unable to confirm anything at this point of time,” PC Link Computers said.  The Gadget Shop will run a Black Friday sale from 23-25 November, with 20% off all products except for DJI drones, and up to 50% off selected products. “We will also be running buy one get one free specials on selected products,” the retailer said. The Gadget Shop added that it would run Cyber Monday online-only deals.  Matrix Warehouse confirmed to MyBroadband that it would run a Black Friday special from 16-26 November.  FirstShop said it would run Black Friday deals from 21-27 November 2018. Product categories which will be discounted include laptops, desktops, monitors, hard drives, PC components, headphones, speakers, and PC peripherals.  Wootware founder Rory Magee confirmed that the retailer would host a Black Friday sale, with discounts on a variety of products. He said the store will have a good mix of products on special across its most relevant categories.  Raru director Neil Smith said the retailer has not yet determined its product list for its specials, but would definitely be hosting a Black Friday sale.  Rebel Tech founder Rune Ravnsborg told MyBroadband that the retailer will host a Black Friday Sale for one day only. 