A large percentage of South Africans are familiar with cryptocurrency, and many of them are interested in purchasing digital currency. This is according to an an independent survey conduct by Luno across emerging markets including Indonesia, Malaysia, and South Africa. Luno commissioned Kantar TNS to conduct a survey across 10 countries, the findings of which the South African cryptocurrency exchange has now published. According to the survey data, 69% of South African respondents indicated that they were familiar with cryptocurrency, while almost a third already own some form of cryptocurrency. Additionally, more than half of South Africans said they were interested in purchasing a cryptocurrency. Luno South Africa country manager Marius Reitz said at a media event in Johannesburg that Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies would enable a new financial system which could lower the cost of living and give citizens more financial freedom. “The world is currently undergoing a major shift in the evolution of money,” Reitz said. “The existing financial system was built for a non-digital age but the world now has access to new technologies like decentralised cryptocurrencies.” The graphic below shows awareness around cryptocurrencies.  The survey data suggests that South Africans are eager to adopt cryptocurrency, with more than 80% of respondents recognising digital tokens as an investment class – and are prepared to hold it over the long term. Additionally, a large number of early adopters are using cryptocurrencies for commercial transactions as an increasing number of local retailers recognise it as a payment method. Tempering this eagerness to adopt, however, is an increasing wariness of scams and volatility. 48% of South Africans surveyed said they were concerned about losing money to phishing scams, transaction errors, and other security concerns, with 47% of South Africans adding that the ability to buy cryptocurrency from a trusted supplier would influence them to purchase more than they do currently. Bitcoin remains the most well-known cryptocurrency among South Africans, with Ethereum following closely behind. Of the South Africans surveyed, only 18% indicated no interest in purchasing cryptocurrency. Additionally, 40% of respondents believe that cryptocurrency is a safe investment, with 61% deeming it profitable. Luno is the biggest cryptocurrency exchange in South Africa and operates in over 40 markets across Europe and Africa, added the company. The graphic below details why people have purchased cryptocurrency. 