In a matter of years, the internet has transformed from an interesting gimmick into a necessity in our daily lives. It is important to have access to affordable, fast internet – and fibre is the best when it comes to these criteria. Fibre offers you SUPER speeds, symmetrical uploads and downloads, and remarkable reliability. However, fibre uptake has been relatively slow in South Africa, due in part to the complexity that is associated with getting a fibre connection. Installation can be a nightmare, and this isn’t helped by the fact that most of the technological jargon will overwhelm the everyday customer. That’s why supersonic has entered the Fibre-to-the-Home (FTTH) market – to make getting a fibre line quick and easy. supersonic is backed by South Africa’s most loved brand, MTN, and is focused on dominating the FTTH market moving forward. MTN acquired Smart Village in December 2016 as its entry point into the FTTH market. In September 2018, MTN relaunched Smart Village as supersonic under the leadership of Calvin Collett, and is focused on fixing the poor reputation for which FTTH service providers are famous. Already, supersonic has rolled out onto eight fibre network operators – Vumatel, Openserve, Century City Connect,  Frogfoot, Octotel, MetroFibre Networks, and SADV – as it is geared to become a dominant force in the FTTH space. Check if you’re covered by visiting www.supersonic.co.za and using the map provided. If you are covered, signing up for fibre is a simple 5-step online process – it’s never been easier! In fact, supersonic is so confident in their ability to simplify your connectivity that they are offering prospective customers a FREE trial month. This incredible opportunity allows you to try before you buy because that is how sure they are that you won’t want to leave their fibre family once you are signed up! All packages are uncapped and unshaped meaning you will never run out of data, experience throttling or receive a shock bill. Packages are also month-to-month, meaning that you aren’t tied down to a long-term commitment. supersonic’s techie team will execute a complimentary WiFi assessment to ensure your entire home is covered, while they will also take full responsibility for the entire installation process. Adding to the unique user experience is the fact that supersonic is the sole distributor of Plume in South Africa. These revolutionary devices will introduce you to Smart Wi-Fi that covers 100% of your home and is fully controllable from the supersonic app on your phone. Live in high-res all the time – sign up for your 1 month free unlimited fibre now! This article was published in partnership with supersonic.