Black Friday has firmly cemented itself in the South African retail calendar as a day to look forward to. Originally celebrated by Americans a day after Thanksgiving, this ‘shopping festival’ has taken the world by storm and brought all the brick and mortar stores along with it. Zando, one of South Africa largest fashion retailers, saw an increase of orders by the factor of 16 compared to an average day in 2017 on Black Friday, 24 November. This is a record for Zando Black Friday sales, which tumbles annually. To provide some context on the scale, Zando claims to have sold 80 items a minute during Black Friday, with 5 times more people visiting the website and app combined, while reaching over 22 million South Africans with marketing material of some form. Logistically, an order was said to be dispatched every 4 seconds, staggeringly. Revenue generated on Black Friday 2017 alone equated to January and February combined for the same year. The ability to handle the increased traffic is the number one priority for Zando, along with preparation to ensure a smooth customer experience and introducing a fail-safe system to ensure the website remains stable. Zando has a 100% up time record over the past Black Fridays and Cyber Mondays, and, while this proves to be a point of pride for the online retailer, they are by no means resting on their laurels, as their Head of Mobile Graham du Plessis states. “We are doing everything possible to ensure that we protect the integrity of the website, from stress testing to scenario simulations. In addition, we have a backup payment provider on standby, should we experience issues on the current platform.” He further states that “Zando has focused particularly on the shopping app and the infrastructure backing it up. Shopping in the app is quick and easy for users offering a greater experience all-round, which we want to maintain over the build-up and day itself”. He is expecting over 60% of all orders to derive from the app alone. According to Narrative’s latest October 2018 South Africa Online Insights, 71.8% of unique browsers come from a mobile source. People are already reading and browsing publishers’ websites via their phones in greater numbers than ever before – it’s built into one’s daily behaviour and a clear indication on content consumption habits. Bolt on the fact that the proportion of people accessing Facebook via a mobile device is no less than 87.5% according to the SA Social Media Landscape 2018 study, and  it would be naïve to think mobile content habits would fail to translate into shopping online. For online retailers, looking to adopt a mobile-ready approach is not only prudent – it is a necessity. In 2017, Zando reports to have surpassed their daily average orders for the year by 2am on the morning of Black Friday, and by 7am, they had achieved more orders than the next highest day that year. The overwhelming majority of these were placed via a mobile device. To keep up to date with the Black Friday deals on Zando, sign up or the visit the site here, and download the shopping app here or here for – iOS & Android. This article was published in partnership with Zando.