As business software needs continue to grow, so too do business’ hardware requirements. Laptops need to be capable of increasingly powerful performance, but acquiring such a high-quality device can be expensive. This is why you need an MSI Prestige notebook this Black Friday. The MSI PS42 smashes through the barrier of entry as an affordable, yet powerful laptop that is perfect for the hardworking businessperson. The PS42 is powered by either a potent Intel Core i5-8250U processor or an i7 8550U and offers 8GB or 16GB DDR4 RAM as well as either a 256GB or 512GB SSD. Users can also choose between three graphics options: Intel UHD Graphics 620 UMA (8M), GTX1050, and MX150. This powerful set-up can keep up with your needs – whether you’re using a word processor or using intensive video editing software. Despite such a powerful set of components, you don’t need to worry about your laptop overheating. MSI’s exclusive Cooler Boost 3 technology includes two dedicated fans and three heat pipes and will ensure that your laptop remains cool even when pushed to the limit. The PS42 caters to almost any connection requirements you may have. It offers an SD Card reader, up to four USB 3.1 ports, HDMI, and audio jacks. Sporting a 14-inch 1,920 x 1,080 screen, the PS42 utilises MSI’s exclusive True Colour Technology that provides a variety of different viewing modes for different scenarios. The 50W battery provides up to 10 hours usage, ensuring that you won’t be caught without battery in the midst of your busy life. The elegant PS42 is made from hair-brushed aluminium and weighs only 1.19kg. It is also only 15.9mm thick, meaning that it is easy to carry the device around with you. White keyboard illumination also ensures that you can see your keyboard in situations where there is poor light. Security is another important consideration as a businessperson. Your data needs to be kept secure, and the PS42’s one-touch fingerprint sensor authentication will ensure that only you can access your files. Whether you’re giving a presentation, or are watching a movie, the PS42’s sound quality has you covered. Enjoy cinematic sound with Nahimic 3 audio and an immersive 7.1 audio system. With such impressive features, you would expect the MSI PS42 to retail for an exorbitant price. However, this Black Friday, the MSI PS42 is available for just R12,999 – R2,000 less than it usually costs. You won’t find a better and lighter laptop for this price, so don’t hesitate – make sure you get your hands on the MSI PS42 this Black Friday.  This article was published in partnership with MSI.