South African retailers have started to promote their Black Friday 2018 plans, which include big discounts on a wide range of tech products. Black Friday falls on 23 November this year and is the biggest shopping day of the year in many countries around the world. Local online and brick-and-mortar retailers are planning their biggest sales ever, with many shops promising large discounts on big brands. These retailers will have a large audience to sell to, with 81% of people surveyed by MyBroadband planning to spend money on Black Friday this year. Most of the people surveyed indicated that they will be looking for good tech deals, especially PC hardware and gaming consoles. The list below provides an overview of the retailers which will offer big discounts on Black Friday this year. Instead of just a single day of specials, Makro will have five days of “unmissable savings” on high-tech products and appliances. Deliveries for both online and in-store purchases over Black Friday will cost R70, regardless of the radius.  Telkom will be offering Black Friday specials this year, which are expected to include a wide range of mobile products.  Game will offer excellent specials on Black Friday in-store and online, which will include big discounts on major appliances and electronics. For the week leading up to Black Friday, Game will be offering shoppers daily deals to get customers excited about the big day.  Matrix Warehouse will offer big price cuts on PC, gaming, and other tech products on Black Friday.  OneDayOnly will offer big discounts on a wide range of products, including gadgets and other tech products.  The Digital Experience will slash prices on a range of technology products and appliances.  Cellucity will offer price cuts on a wide range of smartphones and mobile products.  Edcon will offer consumers big discounts on mobile phones and other products.  For those looking for great computer equipment at big discounts, the ASUS Black Friday sale will be a perfect fit.  Expect excellent specials on mobile packages from MTN Business on Black Friday.  DigiCape will offer big specials on a wide range of Apple and other tech products on Black Friday 2018.  Technomobi is promising big price cuts on a wide range of smartphones and other mobile products.  MHC said consumers can expect big specials on a wide range of products.  Hisense will be offering big discounts on TVs and other tech products on Black Friday 2018 in South Africa.  Zando will offer big discounts on clothing in its Black Friday sale this year.  The Khaliques Black Friday 2018 sale will run from 23-27 November, and all stores will run extended hours on Friday the 23rd.  Educor will offer great deals on its educational products from Damelin, DCC, Intec, City Varsity and Lyceum on Black Friday.  Sage will offer big discounts on its accounting software and related products on Black Friday.  Cybercellar will offer wines at large discounts over Black Friday.  Indie promises a great offer on life insurance on Black Friday.  Raru cofounder Neil Smith said they are planning great specials for Black Friday 2018, which will include discounts ranging between 30-80% off from the normal price points.  MultiChoice said it is excited about Black Friday and will be offering a number of specials.  Takealot said it will have over 10,000 deals at up to 60% off during its Black Friday 2018 sale, which will run from 23 November until 27 November.  Pick n Pay said it is preparing for its biggest Black Friday ever this year, with more deals and bigger savings than last year. It will offer the deals both in-store and online.  Clicks will be holding a Black Friday sale this year for their online store – which is planned for 16-25 November. Consumers can expect up to 70% off technology and accessories, up to 50% off electrical, household, and beauty items, and up to 40% off on health products.  Shoprite and Checkers will both hold Black Friday sales that will offer customers substantial savings on selected products across a range of categories.  Bidorbuy said shoppers can look forward to price cuts of up to 80% over a Black Friday shopping period from 19-26 November.  Superbalist said it will be taking part in Black Friday 2018 with a four-day mega sale from Friday 23 November to Monday 26 November.  Esquire will be offering great deals during “Rainbow Week” between 19 November and 23 November.  The iStore said it will be participating in Black Friday this year, and it will have a range of Apple products and accessories on sale.  Wantitall will offer unique products at great prices on Black Friday.  Travelstart will offer “awesome Black Friday domestic and international travel specials that won’t disappoint”.  Wootware will have a Black Friday sale with discounts on a variety of products.  Rebel Tech will host a Black Friday Sale for one day only.  Dion Wired will offer great discounts on a wide range of tech and other products on Black Friday. 