Takealot is the most popular online store in South Africa, with customers buying everything from hard drives to protein bars from the company. It is also expected to be a go-to destination come Black Friday 2018, with a recent MyBroadband survey showing that 72% of respondents plan to shop on Takealot during the sale period. Speaking to MyBroadband, Takealot CEO Kim Reid said they will have over 10,000 deals at up to 60% off during their Black Friday 2018 sale, which will undoubtedly draw many South Africans to the store. But why is Takealot so popular in South Africa, and what does it do better than other stores which results in customers wanting to shop there? According to Reid, there are a few factors at play – one of which is the fact that it helped pioneer ecommerce in South Africa. Reid said when Takealot started eight years ago, it turned over R50 million. Today, it turns over in excess of R4 billion a year. This growth is thanks to it being one of the first big players to push online shopping in South Africa – and one of the first online retailers to launch a successful Black Friday sale in South Africa, in 2012. “When you start something and you do okay, people know you for that,” he said. Reid said the fact that it is a trusted brand also plays a big part in its success. “We do what we say we are going to go,” said Reid, referring to the process after shoppers place an order on their site – including delivering items on time. “We got our logistic supply chain sorted and get people their stuff on time – and shoppers trust us to do that.” Good prices and a wide range of products naturally also play a part in their success, concluded Reid. Naspers also stated in its integrated annual report for the year ended March 2018 that Takealot is well positioned to continue growing its business. “Takealot continues to grow its business in a sustainable way. It is all about executing a well-made plan, focusing on growing the business and increasing margins, and on becoming more efficient throughout its distribution and supply chain,” said Naspers.