Devjee International has launched a powerful new online turnkey platform for small and medium-sized businesses named ValuePlat. ValuePlat offers a variety of features completely free of charge, from expense tracking and customer management to proposal templates and invoicing. Business owners can leverage the wide variety of helpful services and tools offered by ValuePlat to grow their company and manage their finances far more efficiently. This solution is available to businesses around the world, allowing them to develop into efficient and well-managed enterprises. Small business owners struggling with compliance hurdles, demands from customers for better support, or solving complex accounting problems, ValuePlat is the ideal solution. Scaling a small or medium-sized enterprise to cope with increased demand, diversified income sources, or substantial investment doesn’t have to be an uphill battle. The arsenal of powerful tools on offer from ValuePlat will allow you to quickly grow your business as fast as possible without sacrificing efficiency. These features will also improve the professional format of your business practices, with ValuePlat’s proposal management tools providing you with the ability to create, manage, and send professional proposals for private and public companies. You will also be instantly notified when a proposal is approved, and multiple templates are available to streamline the process of creating and sending these proposals. The free features offered by ValuePlat are impressive and include accessible dashboards which provide you with a bird’s-eye view of your operations – and allow you to keep track of products, services, employees, and tax information. Reports are also regularly provided to platform users, granting them a summarised overview of their business and its finances. Additionally, if you require support services within any aspect of your business, ValuePlat can provide these through its unified platform. If your business is looking to improve its efficiency and benefit from a professional, unified platform, navigate to the ValuePlat website at www.valueplat.com and sign up for a free account. Users simply need to enter their name, company name, email address, and password to sign up for the free service and begin growing their business. The current collection of services offered by the ValuePlat platform is impressive, but they are just the beginning. ValuePlat plans to offer a number of additional features aimed at improving the business operational experience for enterprise owners. These upcoming tools include financing and legal services, which will allow businesses to gain access to finance to assist with business deals, as well as various business and personal legal templates for easier management of contracts and other technical documents. ValuePlat will also include country-specific support for value-added services, including the acquisition of compliance and tax clearance certificates. Users are also set to receive access to an integrated ecommerce platform, which will grant them access to products and services from valued partners of ValuePlat. With all of these exciting new tools making their way to ValuePlat and the collection of great services on offer right now, there is no reason not to sign up for free right now.  This article was published in partnership with Di-Group.