Takealot is preparing for massive traffic on Black Friday 2018 to ensure its website can handle the expected spike in activity. Speaking to MyBroadband, Takealot CEO Kim Reid said the company has run multiple tests throughout the year and continues to conduct tests to prepare as best they can for the busy shopping period. Takealot said it will have over 10,000 deals at up to 60% off during its Black Friday 2018 sale, which will run from 23 November until 27 November. This will see many users visiting the website, with Takealot a popular shopping destination in South Africa. Reid said they are preparing for between 50,000 to 100,000 simultaneous sessions on the site, and tests have shown that Takealot can cope with this load. “Indications are good we can handle volume over Black Friday,” he said. However, Reid said they cannot directly answer the question: “Will Takealot stay up on Black Friday 2018?” “We must be brutally honest about this,” said Reid, adding that Takealot has gone down multiple times on Black Friday in recent years. “We will see on the 23rd [of November].” Takealot suffered from slow load times and unresponsive pages minutes into Black Friday 2017, and temporarily took down the site to fix issues and deal with backlogged orders. Reid said preparing for a big spike in traffic over a short period of time is not as simple as “buying more servers”. The site must be ready for the normal growth in the year that takes place, along with the massive influx which can only last several hours or a day during Black Friday. While their tests so far have yielded good results, only once Takealot is in the real-world scenario will they see if the planning was adequate. Reid said if they find issues with their systems they will fix them to keep their platform online. Black Friday is an important shopping day for the company, but is only a blip in Takealot’s continued growth, added Reid. Takealot continues to increase its turnover each year and remains the most popular online shopping destination in South Africa. It also continues to receive support from Naspers, which is confident in the Takealot team.