The holiday season is fast approaching – and while this is a time for family, friends, and relaxing, it is more importantly a time for buying presents and sweet deals. With Black Friday sales already kicking off, and Cyber Monday and festive season deals on their way soon, it is a good time to buy something nice for yourself or get gifts to hand out. To help you decide what to purchase, we have put together a gift guide with a mix of tech items which will hopefully inspire you, or remind what you want to buy. Check out our tech gift guide below, and please put in any gift ideas you have in our comments section and forum. Please also remember that the items listed below may come on special in the coming weeks, so the price you see now is not necessarily what you will have to pay. You can pick up this powerful graphics card at a discounted rate thanks to the recent release of the RTX 2070 and RTX 2018 cards.  If you need the latest in graphics card technology, however, the GeForce RTX 2080 Ti is the GPU for you. It is Nvidia’s most powerful gaming card on the market.  At 55-inches and sporting a UHD resolution, this Samsung TV is the foundation of a great home entertainment experience.  Keep a clean face this holiday with the Braun Series 7 wireless shaver.  Relive your youth with the PlayStation Classic, now available for pre-order.  For holiday music listening, or work purposes in 2019, new headphones are always a cool gift.  The ultimate gaming consoles from Sony to keep you playing the best titles.  A 27-inch monitor is arguably the best size for your average PC user.  If you are not a PlayStation fan, Microsoft’s Xbox One console can also hit the spot.  Gym and exercise earphones with good sound and the Beats name backing them.  Apple’s latest iPhone is undoubtedly one of the most-desired tech gifts this season.  A great keyboard and mouse combo for serious PC gamers.  For Android and Note fans, the Galaxy Note 9 offers a wide array of powerful features.  The perfect gift for the DIY friend.  The Huawei Mate 20 Pro is packed with AI features that give the phone next-level performance and functionality.  With an 8th-Gen Intel Core CPU and GTX 1050 GPU, this laptop will crunch most titles.  Keep all those files you were considering deleting with a big mechanical hard drive.  The handheld console you can plug into your TV – with all of Nintendo’s best games.  Get Netflix and more on Kwese’s branded Roku player.  Billed as the biggest game of 2018, the PS4 and Xbox One title takes you back to the days of the cowboys. 