Samsung Pay is taking South Africa by storm, with an increasing number of people using the mobile payment app. The platform offers a secure and accessible payment method for Samsung smartphone owners and is being continuously improved to enhance the user experience. Since its local launch in August 2018, the platform has undergone big changes and has delivered a range of useful features to consumers across the country. Thanks to the use of secure tokenization technology and the Samsung Knox platform, Samsung Pay offers one of the safest and quickest ways to make purchases. One major advantage the app has over other platforms is its use of both near-field communication (NFC) and magnetic secure transmission (MST) technology. This allows Samsung Pay users to pay with their smartphones at 97% of all POS terminals in South Africa. Samsung has rolled out many enhancements to the Samsung Pay app since its initial launch in South Africa. One of these changes is an overhauled user interface, which makes making payments, accessing loyalty cards, and earning rewards even easier. The new user interface sees the user’s loaded bank card oriented horizontally instead of vertically to allow for easier legibility, and dedicated Pay and Home buttons have been added to the app to improve navigation. Searching through loyalty cards is also easier than before, with users able to access their loyalty card information at the press of a button. Samsung has also announced that it will bring Samsung Pay support to wearables in the near future, including its latest Samsung Galaxy Watch. This will allow South Africans to make contactless payments by tapping their smartwatch on an NFC-compatible payment terminal. Samsung is also working with a number of local banks to bring Samsung Pay to even more South Africans, and expects to launch support for an additional five banks in 2019. These banks will include Discovery Bank and Investec, along with other major financial institutions. This article was published in partnership with Samsung.