Adopting cloud-based services can deliver improved efficiency and greater analytics capabilities while removing management overhead. Vodacom managing executive for business solutions Chris Lazarus said that cloud technology has changed how businesses scale their operations to cater to the number of customers using their platforms. “If you had to think back to IT capabilities for a customer in the old days, one would need to think how do I scale up and down in an environment where things change, i.e. month-end versus the middle of the month,” Lazarus said. “Cloud computing gives you the ability to scale up and down in your IT infrastructure and resources.” He said that these days, this type of dynamic scaling can be done in seconds, allowing companies to maximise their efficiency and save on costs. The cloud services offered by Vodacom deliver efficient and cutting-edge data storage and analytics, along with secure, locally-based management tools and flexible product combinations. The world’s hunger for data is set to keep growing, and Lazarus notes that the interpretation and conclusions drawn from the collection of raw data can be used to offer unprecedented insight. “From a data perspective, the world is just going to get bigger, and that is what is going to feed this monster of online storage – not just in terms of holding capacity and capability, but intelligence,” Lazarus says. “We can’t just be keeping data for the sake of it… the bigger part of it is what do you do with the data, how you interpret it, and how it feeds you more information about your business,” he added. Vodacom Business offers a variety of cloud and hosting products, including dedicated Azure environments, data backup, and dedicated hosting. By migrating their operations and data interpretation to Vodacom’s cloud services, companies can take advantage of high-level analytics tools and reduced costs due to dynamic scaling, Lazarus said. “Online storage is going to be fed by this new hunger for data, in terms of both consumption and the understanding of it,” he concluded. This article was published in partnership with Vodacom EBU.