MTN’s continued network investment in the latest cutting-edge technologies is paying off in a big way, with big performance improvements. MyBroadband drive test results show that MTN’s average download speed, upload speed, and latency has shown significant improvements over the last 6 months. These results are based on 772,647 network performance tests which were performed across South Africa. Cell down-sampling is used to ensure that multiple tests in a single area do not skew the results. The results show that the average download speed on MTN’s network increased from 26Mbps in May 2018 to 30Mbps in November 2018. Network performance improvements were also seen in the average upload speed and latency – as shown in the table below. MTN spokesperson Jacqui O’Sullivan told MyBroadband that its dual data strategy – focusing on 3G and 4G – has driven significant coverage improvements over the past two years. “Over the past few months, MTN has actively continued upgrading of the network on the back of 2017 which saw MTN attaining the largest base station rollout ever,” O’Sullivan said. She explained that throughout the rollout MTN invested in the latest cutting-edge technologies, which include: One of the biggest factors which improved network performance in recent months is MTN’s rollout of LTE sites on the 900MHz band. “We have rolled out more than 2,800 new LTE sites on the 900MHz band over the last few months,” O’Sullivan said. The 3CC technology which uses LTE in the 900MHz band enables higher speeds and better indoor coverage. MTN’s rapid LTE coverage growth has resulted in a much higher average data speed to subscribers. O’Sullivan said MTN’s 900MHz LTE rollout contributed to an LTE population coverage increase from 83% to 87%. “The objective is to ensure we roll out new LTE coverage to rural areas as well as improve LTE indoor coverage in metro areas,” she said. The higher LTE population coverage means that more subscribers are getting 4G speeds, which increases the operator’s average network performance.