VCS, an exclusive and leading Xerox distributor based in Seychelles, has won the 2018 Xerox Africa Operations Distributor of the Year award. The company achieved the highest percentage against target, compared to all other Altron Bytes Document Solutions’s (BDS) African Xerox distributors. For 25 years VCS has been providing award-winning business technology and managed services to clients in Seychelles whose businesses are local, national and international in scope. VCS has been on a consistent growth path with its Xerox business over the past years. VCS is known in the market for its industry knowledge, technical analysts, and world class service teams, and has a reputation for always delivering the right solution. This award affirms its recognized value to clients and expertise. “We are so grateful for this honor,” says Stephen Faure, General Manager at the VCS Xerox Department.  “Our focus and mission every day is to be the best partner for organizations of all sizes. Our clients always come first. Our customers also appreciate our ability to listen closely to their needs and make the best recommendation for them.” “Congratulations to VCS for their tremendous achievements in 2018 and exemplifying what it means to be a great Xerox partner” says Olivier Merven, Regional Manager: Africa, Altron Rest of Africa. “VCS has a strong reputation in their market by putting their customers first, and being extremely adept at turning Xerox product and service advantages into competitive advantages for their customers.” In addition to supplying office printing products, VCS also provides managed print services (MPS), which enables cost-effective optimisation of the print environment, and increases productivity through automated processes, print policies and easy-to-use systems. “Looking ahead, we will be offering Equitrac Office, an intelligent print management solution that provides control, convenience, and choice, while reducing IT complexity,” Faure adds. “It gives end users secure mobile print workflow, controlling costs and simplifying administration. We have also started offering digital archiving, and upping our MPS offering by the appointment of an MPS champion.” VCS will be moving to new premises to accommodate the growth of the business. Faure says the Xerox department is soon to become a standalone company within the VCS group, with all Xerox resources under one roof to better service customers. Faure says Altron BDS is a great company to work with, “Xerox is a technology leader in the industry and we are excited to be working with a company that is constantly at the forefront of innovation.” This article was published in partnership with Altron Bytes Document Solutions.