Black Friday has become a shopper’s dream, as retailers offer massive discounts on every product imaginable. But, while saving is always a good idea, Chris Wood, Executive: Card Issuing & Payments at Nedbank, cautions that Black Friday isn’t without its risks. “People need to be aware that some of deals they see online really can be too good to be true,” Wood says, “because, in addition to legitimate discounts, Black Friday also brings with it plenty of Internet scams and fake offers created to extort money or gather confidential information from unaware consumers.” He advises Black Friday Internet shoppers to be very discriminating in their online purchase decisions and make sure that they are shopping on legitimate sites using encrypted payment technology. “If you are in any doubt about an online offer, walk away,” he says, “it’s better to miss out on a deal than have your money or identity stolen.” Wood also cautions shoppers to avoid the trap of over-spending on Black Friday. “It’s easy to get caught up in the discount frenzy and spend money you don’t have on things you don’t really need; and the resulting expensive debt can quickly leave you regretting your spontaneous purchase decision.” Wood says that Nedbank doesn’t believe Black Friday has to just be an opportunity to consume. “We have a vision of changing Black Friday from a consumption frenzy to a true savings and money growth opportunity,” he explains, “which is why we are offering innovative Black Friday deals designed to boost people’s investment earnings giving them significant savings on fees and attractive interest rates.” Of course, Nedbank still understands that people want to shop for deals on Black Friday, which is why the bank’s Greenbacks Rewards programme is offering great deals that shoppers can access without actually having to spend a cent. “While we don’t want anyone to get into  debt because of Black Friday shopping, we also don’t want our clients to miss out,” Wood explains, “that’s why we’re offering discounts of up to 50% on our Greenbacks Online Mall so our clients can still shop for great deals without actually having to spend a cent, because they can pay with their Greenbacks points.” Best of all, there’s no risk involved in any of these Black Friday offers. “When you ‘shop’ at Nedbank, you know you’re dealing with a reputable business that’s trusted by millions,” Wood points out, “and the deals aren’t aimed at taking your money, instead they’re designed to help you save and grow it.” This article was published in partnership with Nedbank.