Honor has launched its 8X smartphone in South Africa, a device with a mid-range price tag that offers a high-end set of features. Honor, which is a brand in the Huawei group, said the 8X will sell for R5,499 – making it a very attractive alternative to more expensive devices from the likes of Huawei, Samsung, and Apple. Despite the lower price trag, the Honor 8X is not short on features, and the first thing you notice on the device is its large, clear display. The 8X has a 6.5-inch 1080p display (2,340 x 1,080) in a sleek body that features a small notch and thin bezels. Honor says the phone has a screen-to-body ratio of 91%, and features a 19.5:9 aspect ratio, making the front of the device almost entirely screen. The smartphone also features the company’s GPU Turbo technology for improved graphics performance, along with 4GB RAM and a Kirin 710 processor – meaning the hardware to power the display properly is there. Dual rear cameras with AI photography enhancements, a facial recognition system and fingerprint sensor on the rear, 64GB of storage and microSD support, LTE cellular support, and a 3,750mAh battery are other headline features which make the Honor 8X impressive on paper. These features combined with a price tag of R5,499 make the Honor 8X a good argument against paying R15,000 or R20,000 for a flagship smartphone – which is currently the trend in South Africa. While top-end devices from big brands like Apple offer powerful performance, cool features, and and are a status symbol, the Honor 8X looks and feels like a premium device while delivering more than enough power for most users. The fact that the 8X runs EMUI 8.2 – the Android 8 operating system with a Huawei skin – adds to this argument, as it offers almost all the software features and apps you will need. WhatsApp, Uber, Facebook, Instagram, email, and other staples are all catered for on the device. This is a deliberate play by Honor, which aims to offer flagship experiences at lower prices – a move which may work well in South Africa due to consumers coming under severe financial pressure in recent years. The specifications of the Honor 8X along with hands-on photos of the device are shown below.    