Netflix South Africa is offering users a new “Ultra” package, which sits above Premium as the top package available. When MyBroadband visited Netflix’s local sign-up page, we were presented with four package options. The packages were Basic, Standard, Premium, and Ultra. Previously, only the first three packages were available in South Africa. The packages were priced as follows: Netflix also appears to have added a new line item to the features list of each package, called “Highest quality audio”. The Ultra package is the only one which supports “highest quality audio”. Besides this, the Ultra package shares the same attributes as the Premium option, including UHD streaming and support for four screens at once. The Standard package retains its two-screen and HD streaming support, while the Basic package keeps its standard definition streaming and support for one screen. Netflix told MyBroadband that the Ultra package is part of a test of different price points to better understand “how consumers value Netflix”. “Not everyone will see the test, and we may not ever offer the specific price points or features beyond this test,” said Netflix. It added that the highest quality audio option will deliver a “significantly higher bitrate” to supported devices. This will produce crisper, more immersive sound if network conditions allow. “We rely on testing to help us better understand interest level around certain types of features or price points on Netflix. In this case, those who selected the Ultra plan will have access to enhanced audio capabilities that deliver more crisp, better quality sound on supported devices.” “Our goal is to learn and understand how much members value audio quality on Netflix.” Netflix said that most new TVs, streaming sticks, and gaming consoles with 5.1 audio capabilities will be supported. Members who sign up for the Ultra plan will also be able to keep the enhanced audio capabilities beyond the test. The screenshot below shows the new Ultra price plan, along with how it compares to the three existing plans. Click the image to enlarge it.  The local launch of the Netflix Ultra package comes after reports in July that the company was testing the tier internationally. The Ultra subscription tier was priced at €16.99 in Europe. It added that the number of simultaneous devices for the Standard and Premium plans decreased to one and two respectively. Netflix confirmed at the time to CNET it was testing the new tier, stating it was looking at different price points and features to understand how consumers value the service. There have also been recent reports that Netflix is testing cheaper packages in parts of the world to encourage new sign-ups.