Nutanix recently held its .Next user conference in Johannesburg and Cape Town. The conference focused on current IT trends shaping the digital world in a bid to get customers to think about why change is crucial in the digital era. Some of these trends include APIs, cloud adoption, and extended infrastructure management, which are, according to speaker  and Vice President of Customer Success at Nutanix Venugopal Pai, key technologies supporting digital transformation. The same trends have also been cited by Gartner in 2018. According to Gartner, digital transformation requires IT agility and velocity that outstrips classical architectures and practices. “This year IT is increasingly tasked with supporting complex, distributed applications using new technologies that are spread across systems in multiple locations, including on-premises data centres, the public cloud, and hosting providers,” said Gartner. As a leader in the Gartner Magic Quadrant, Forrester Wave, and in the IDC Market Share report, Nutanix is on a journey to bring a level of consolation that provides the agility many believe can only be acquired by moving to the cloud. Using a unified software platform called Enterprise Cloud OS, Nutanix hides all the complexity of AWS, Azure, Google, and IoT so consumers have the freedom to do what’s important to them, while being able to choose which cloud they want for each application. The platform enables IT teams to build and operate powerful multi-cloud architectures, as it melds private, public, and distributed cloud operating environments and provides a single point of control to manage IT infrastructure and applications at any scale. Nutanix makes infrastructure invisible, elevating IT to focus on the applications and services that power their business. The Nutanix Enterprise Cloud Platform blends web-scale engineering and consumer-grade design to natively converge server, storage, virtualisation and networking into a resilient, software-defined solution with rich machine intelligence. The single software fabric unifies your private and public clouds, and delivers one-click simplicity in managing multi-cloud deployments, resulting in predictable performance, cloud consumption models, robust security, and seamless application mobility for all enterprise applications at any scale. “We’re on this journey of making enterprise computing invisible and getting rid of complexity and converged things, by building an operating system that spans all these layers of edge, datacentre, cloud, appliance, software, containers, virtualisation, IoT, and moving it to a world where all of that complexity is extracted away with one click,” said Pai. See how the Nutanix Enterprise Cloud Platform can take your IT to the next level, by visiting their website. This article was published in partnership with Nutanix.