Huawei’s powerful new Mate20 Pro is now available in South Africa, offering impressive performance and powerful features in a stylish form factor. The Mate20 Pro is the pinnacle of smartphone design, integrating artificial intelligence and hardware to deliver a truly unique experience. This improved intelligence is embedded within the device’s software and opens up exciting new applications and opportunities to consumers which were previously inaccessible on a smartphone. The Huawei Mate20 Pro’s intelligent design is most apparent when using the smartphone’s camera features. Situated on the rear of the Huawei Mate 20 Pro is one of the most advanced camera systems ever built into a smartphone. The Mate 20 Pro’s camera system was designed in partnership with Leica and includes a 40MP RGB lens in addition to 20MP ultra-wide and 8MP telephoto lenses. This lens configuration delivers zoom and picture quality which is competitive with professional cameras, and supports everything from ultra-wide to macro shots. Huawei’s Mate20 Pro can take extreme close-up shots from only 2.5cm away and boasts incredible optical zoom capabilities thanks to its unique camera layout. The device is also IP68 rated water-resistant, good for 1.5m  for up to 30 minutes, and its camera can be switched to an underwater mode which optimises camera settings for shots taken underwater. Huawei has a specialized waterproof casing to be used with underwater mode which provides further protection at depths of up to 5 meters. Below are the full specifications of the Huawei Mate20 Pro. While the Huawei Mate20 Pro’s specifications and processing power are impressive, it is the software which compliments the hardware that elevates the device to a level above the competition. The Mate 20 Pro’s Kirin 980 chipset boasts a dual neural processing unit, which powers a number of AI features integrated with the device’s software. Most importantly for both professional and casual photographers, the Mate20 Pro’s camera app can automatically detect and recognise subjects, adjusting settings dynamically depending on the type of photograph being taken. A selection of intelligent filters and adjustments can easily be compared and applied when taking photos, and all of these features also apply to video recording. Most impressively, the AI-powered camera system can dynamically isolate human subjects and desaturate the colors around them to dramatically highlight them. This tool is named AI Colour, and can be used when recording live video thanks to the powerful AI-focused chipset within the Mate20 Pro. Another intelligent feature accessible from within the device’s media interface is AI Spotlight Reel, which identifies videos with a shared theme and auto-generates a montage based on the highlights of these clips. Thanks to this selection of powerful camera features, the Huawei Mate20 Pro is the perfect smartphone for everyone from professional photographers to Instagram fanatics. With the Mate20 Pro, recording high-quality video and taking beautiful photos is easier than ever before. This article was published in partnership with Huawei Mobile.