As reported by BusinessTech, the National Treasury recently published an amended regulation for electronic services. The regulation – which has an effective date of 1 April 2019 – will impact international suppliers of services to South African customers, who must now evaluate whether their supply of services qualifies as “electronic services” and whether this will create a liability to register for VAT in South Africa. According to Baker & McKenzie, the impact of the amended regulation is that all services that are supplied from abroad by an electronic agent, electronic communication or the Internet are now electronic services for the purposes of VAT. “What is envisaged by the definition is that the services being supplied are essentially automated and involve minimal human intervention and are impossible to ensure in the absence of information technology,” it said. “Only a limited number of services that may be provided by the above means are excluded from the definition of electronic services, namely educational services regulated in the export country of the foreign service provider, and telecommunication services.” It added that the reach of the new regulation is staggering and may include the supply of the following services: Speaking to BusinessTech, Seelan Moonsamy, a VAT expert at Baker & McKenzie, said that the regulations will likely lead to companies such as Netflix, Facebook, and Google having to register for VAT. “If these companies deliver its services by electronic means and the total value of its services exceed R1 million on a rolling 12 month period they will have to register.” He added that this extra tax will likely be passed on to South African consumers through increased prices. “The customer would ultimately bear the value-added tax in the form of higher prices as VAT is – in economic parlance – a consumption tax,” he said. “I imagine that behemoths like Amazon and Google would still remain very competitive based on their ability to price discount, so their likely VAT registration for electronic services would not have any major impact on their ability to attract customers and their revenues.” Baker & McKenzie warned that all foreign businesses that supply electronic services in South Africa should now determine if their services are supplied by means of an electronic agent, electronic communication, or via the Internet. “Failure to register for VAT in a timeous manner may have a huge financial impact for these foreign service providers, as SARS would levy penalties and interest and this may also lead to reputational damage,” it said.