The Digital Experience is offering customers a range of Samsung QLED 4K TVs, which offer an unrivalled viewing experience with perfect colour, high contrast ratios, and a long panel lifespan. What makes Samsung’s 2018 QLED TVs stand out is the company’s innovative Quantum Dot technology, which provides enhanced brightness levels compared to competing TV technology, and allows it to reproduce more colours than LED TVs without quantum dots. Thanks to Quantum Dot technology, these big screens deliver over a billion colours and stunning contrast for exceptional viewing any time of the day. Samsung’s new 2018 QLED TV makes a billion colours possible by simply adding light into the mixture, offering colour accuracy and expanded colour volume, which improves saturation at higher brightness levels.  The 2018 Samsung QLED TVs puts external lighting annoyances in the past, with deeper and darker blacks using Ultra Black technology that highlight every single detail, so regardless how much light filters into the room, you’ll enjoy a perfect viewing experience every time. Samsung has also added full array local dimming to their flagship models – the Q8 and Q9. This selectively dims LEDs for peak luminance, while anti-reflective coating, along with other panel improvements, effectively reduces the halo effect. “It doesn’t matter whether the room you are in is dark or bright, you’ll still enjoy the same great picture quality,” said Samsung. By combining Samsung expertise and HDR10+ technology, QLEDs offer HDR for a wider range of brightness and contrast, for enhanced picture nuances. Paired with Ultra Black technology, giving viewers punctual visuals and lifelike details on their screens. Composed of inorganic materials, Samsung QLED TVs provide consistent, bright, vivid image quality for years. Additionally, Samsung has equipped all its 2018 QLED televisions with support for variable refresh rate, which should drastically improve performance for those playing multiplayer games with unreliable frame rates, and the viewing of fast sports action.  These TVs are designed so viewers can enjoy the benefits of the QLED TV, and can experience consistent colours and a great picture, whatever their viewing angle. No matter where you sit or stand to watch your favourite movie or series or play a game, the scene will still appear the way it was intended to be seen.  Samsung’s QLED family is also quite simple to set up and use – all you need is Samsung’s SmartThings app. Newer QLED models will automatically draw information from your smartphone, allowing them to download all your streaming apps and log you in with a single tap. What’s more is that Samsung’s gapless mount system and Invisible One Connect box allow you to easily mount a QLED and hide its cables. Samsung‘s new 2018 QLED TV will give you amazing experiences every day, from our best picture quality yet to intuitive smart features, and a beautiful design you can be proud of. Samsung’s QLED TVs are available from the Digital Experience in a variety of sizes across its range: To find out more, visit the Digital Experience website. This article was published in partnership with The Digital Experience.