Microsoft’s Windows operating system remains the most popular in the world and will probably retain this position for the foreseeable future. Despite this, the latest version of Windows is not without its flaws. Windows 10 continues to gain popularity amongst desktop users, but it has also delivered a great deal of frustration to users due to major bugs and issues with updates. A number of problems with the operating system have led to Microsoft promising to improve the quality of updates delivered to Windows 10. One of the most notable issues which occured recently on Windows 10 was the rollout of the October 2018 update. The update rolled out with a major bug that deleted user files once it was installed, prompting Microsoft to pull the update and work on fixing the problem. Another major issue with Windows 10 was recently unearthed which prevented users from setting Win32 applications to be the default program for certain file types. If you are tired of falling to prey to the bugs in Windows 10, there are two major alternatives you can use – Linux and MacOS. Linux-based operating systems are free alternatives to Windows 10 which are available in various distributions. The term “Linux” technically only refers to the kernel or core program of an operating system, but it is often used as shorthand for any operating system that uses Linux. Apart from the obvious advantages of being free and open-source, the vast library of Linux distributions available means that most users should find a version of the operating system which suits their needs. Popular Linux distributions which feature similar interfaces to Windows include Ubuntu, Mint, and Manjaro, although there are a variety of other projects, including an actively-developed desktop version of the Android operating system. Installing Linux is straightforward, especially for popular distributions such as Mint and Ubuntu. Users can visit a secure website hosting the distribution, and download the correct ISO file for their destination system. It is important to note that while popular Linux distributions are compatible with a wide variety of hardware, it is still a good idea to check for any compatibility issues before installing. Linux falls short of Windows 10 in its ability to run games and certain software suites, however, as there are more Windows-supported games than titles which run properly on Linux. Valve is working to bring thousands of new games to Linux through its Steam Play programme to counter this.  For most desktop users, Windows 10 and Linux are the only available options for their hardware configuration – although there is a third option if you are willing to buy new hardware. MacOS is lauded as an exceptional operating system, and experiences notably fewer issues than Windows 10 due to its closed hardware ecosystem. The operating system is exclusive to Mac devices and comes free when you buy any an Apple laptop or desktop. Apple’s ecosystem also supports impressive functionality between its hardware devices, allowing iPhone users to easily sync files and data between their Mac and their iPhone. Users who are unable or unwilling to purchase a MacBook or Mac desktop but still want to use MacOS over Windows 10 can also build their own “Macs”. These users can build Hackintosh PCs with compatible hardware and install MacOS on them to mimic the hardware and software experience of an Apple device. It is important to note that these setups do not align with Apple’s terms and conditions for its operating system, and they will not provide as smooth an experience as a standard installation. 