Shortly after Takealot launched its Black Friday 2018 sale, customers began complaining about issues with payment processing on the website. While the retailer’s website remained online despite the surge in traffic, users took to social media to report that the website was not processing payments correctly. Customers stated that the website crashed at the payment screen after they clicked pay, and on certain occasions funds still came off their account. The company previously told MyBroadband that it was preparing for massive traffic on Black Friday 2018 to ensure its website can handle the expected spike in activity. Takealot has now issued a statement explain why users experienced payment issues when attempting to buy products. “Takealot can confirm that we have had record-breaking orders and visits in the first few hours of Black Friday,” the company said. “Our scaling preparations across all of our platforms ensured that the site remained online and performed well under the extensive initial load.” The company said that the issues users experienced were due to issues with its credit card payment provider. “It is however very unfortunate that our credit card payment provider has let us down badly, causing numerous payment issues for some of our customers.” Takealot said it was forced to intermittently deactivate the credit card payment gateway while its provider restored its service. This failure to process transactions resulted in some customers experiencing difficulty completing credit card payments. “This is unfortunately out of our control but we are working with the credit card payment supplier to restore the payment gateway as quickly as possible,” Takealot said. Other payment methods such as EFT via iPay and Payfast remain functional, and the retailer encouraged shoppers to use the available payment options until the credit card payment issue is resolved. Takealot said that its team was working through all affected transactions and would ensure that any double payments made would be refunded. “We apologise for disappointing some our customers,” Takealot said. “Rest assured that thousands of Blue Dot Sale deals are still available.” Takealot’s Blue Dot Sale closes at midnight on Tuesday 27 November 2018.