Matrix Warehouse has launched its new Maverick Gaming Centre at Rivonia Crossing in Johannesburg. The centre offers 140 PC gaming stations, which include a monitor and a chair for players. PC gamers must bring their own computers, although the goal moving forward is for the centre to acquire its own PCs. There are Xbox consoles available, too, while the Maverick Gaming Centre also accommodates those who would prefer to bring their own console. The centre can host 100 players who bring their own consoles. The centre has two esports booths – each with space for a team of five – complete with the relevant peripherals for competitive gaming. The likes of Logitech and Dell will also permanently run booths at the centre that allow customers to try out interesting technologies such as VR gaming. In terms of Internet connectivity, the centre has a 600Mbps fibre line for gamers to use, while electricity supply to gaming stations is segmented to ensure power trips are contained. “In South Africa, the gaming community is growing in leaps and bounds,” said MD of Matrix Warehouse, Jan Boshoff. He added that if the centre does well, they will consider expanding to Cape Town and Durban. Boshoff said Matrix Warehouse will also run a store in the esports centre. All VS Gaming knockouts and Comic Con playoffs will take place at the new Maverick Gaming Centre, and host Dean de Wet lauded the role that VS Gaming had played in its development. Wanda Mkhize, Telkom’s executive of content and VS Gaming, added that she was “blown away” by what had been achieved. “We’ve been dreaming about this for years,” said Mkhize. “Only through our partnership with Matrix Warehouse has this been able to come true. We’re excited to interact with gamers more – previously we only got to meet up once or twice a year,” she added. The centre is open from 12:00 to 21:00 on weekdays, while on Saturdays it opens at 10:00 and closes at 22:00. On Sundays, the centre opens at 10:00 and closes at 18:00. Entrance costs R150 from Monday to Thursday, while from Friday to Sunday it costs R300. Photos from the launch event can be found below.             