Rain recently stated that it would offer free off-peak data to all its active fixed-LTE customers from 1 December 2018. The company said that customers with fixed LTE packages would receive off-peak data for a period of 19 hours (23:00 until 18:00) every day, in addition to the standard data they received according to their package details. For example, subscribers with a 55GB package will receive 55GB anytime data and an extra 55GB off-peak data to use in the off-peak period. Rain previously said this off-peak data allocation will not specifically be subject to shaping, but it reserves the right to manage its network. Earlier this year, Rain was forced to suspend sales of its fixed-LTE product due to capacity constraints on its network. While Rain said it may reopen fixed-LTE sales once its network can support the move, it did not provide any timeline for this. MyBroadband asked various local ISPs which have existing Rain LTE customers on their networks whether they will implement the free off-peak data offering. Vox carrier and connectivity executive head Henda Edwardes said that due to Rain providing the incentive, it would definitely pass this along to customers. “As the off-peak data incentive is provided by the upstream network provider, Vox will most certainly be offering this to all its rain fixed LTE subscribers as from December 1,” Edwardes said. Afrihost confirmed that it will also offer this incentive in the near future. “We will definitely be offering Rain off peak data from 1 December,” Afrihost said. “This will be available for all Rain clients whether they previously had double data or not. MWEB told MyBroadband that it would offer its customers the same benefit, while Webafrica confirmed it would offer free off-peak data to its Rain fixed-LTE clients. When speaking to Rain customer support, a MyBroadband reader reported that he was told the promotion will apply to all fixed-LTE users regardless of their ISP. The reader was also told that off-peak data would not be carried over, and only peak data would be carried over to the next month.