Game’s 2018 Black Friday sale is going to be bigger and better than ever before! Shoppers across the country and continent will be able to snap up incredible deals at unbeatable prices. Beginning on Wednesday 7 November and ending on Tuesday 13 November, Game’s first warmup week will give shoppers a taste of what’s to come with discounts on a range of items. The second warmup week, from Wednesday 14 November until Saturday 17 November, will provide more specials to Game customers. Then, for the entire week leading up to Black Friday, Game will be offering shoppers daily deals to get their customers excited about the big day. On Black Friday, Game encourages shoppers to get online and into stores early if they want to snap up the best deals possible. Game’s buying teams have been hard at work negotiating with their suppliers so that they can offer customers the best possible prices. In the past, Black Friday was often focused on major appliances and electronics, but this year, Game has extended its specials to every product category. They’ve also made stocked up on popular items based on buying patterns from previous years; however, Game still recommends that customers get an early start to ensure that they avoid disappointment. On Monday 26 November, shoppers will be able to pick up a variety of high-quality tech-related specials thanks to Cyber Monday, including deals for laptops, tablets, smartphones, and digital accessories. Game’s online store will open at midnight on the Thursday, while 80 stores nationwide will also open at this time. Game has done everything possible to plan for Black Friday, including the addition of crowd-management services at their busiest locations. For a full list of store opening times, visit https://www.game.co.za/game-za/en//black-friday-2018-midnight-trading-storelist Game has improved its systems – both on their website and with their deliveries. However, since this is still comfortably Game’s busiest day of the year, customers should expect their orders to arrive within 5-7 working days (depending on region). If shoppers have any queries, Game’s Customer Call Centre will be ready to help. Just call 0861 GAME CARE (0861 4263 2273) or Online Support at 0861 426 333. Shoppers who are short on cash can apply for credit at https://rcs.co.za/partner/game/appform/card/#CardFormQuickCheck or in-store. To get the latest deals, sneak peeks of a selection of the Black Friday deals and all other Game Black Friday news, subscribe to Game’s newsletter here: https://www.game.co.za/game-za/en/newsletter. You can also follow Game on social media: Facebook: @GameStoresSA Twitter: @Game_Stores Website: www.game.co.za This article was published in partnership with Game.