Openserve recently announced it will upgrade its minimum fibre-to-the-home line speed from 4Mbps to 10Mbps, starting from 1 January 2019. This statement was included in Telkom’s interim results for the six months ended 30 September 2018, where the change was described as an integral part of Openserve’s digital migration strategy. Following this change, customers will no longer be able to order 4Mbps fibre packages if they are using Openserve infrastructure, and will instead need to get a 10Mbps line. It should be noted that Openserve fibre-to-the-home packages are not synchronous, and these speed figures refer to download speeds – with upload speeds usually delivering half the bandwidth. While Telkom’s statement clearly expressed its plan to migrate subscribers on slower fibre packages, it did not detail how this migration would affect package pricing. To determine how existing 4Mbps fibre customers will be affected by the move, MyBroadband spoke to local ISPs. Webafrica’s Greg Wright confirmed that 4Mbps Openserve fibre customers will be migrated to 10Mbps speeds on 1 January 2019. “Unfortunately, leaving customers on 4Mbps speeds isn’t an option as Openserve are force migrating and deprecating the 4Mbps speed,” Wright said. He noted that this line speed increase would result in a small bill increase, in addition to a major improvement in bandwidth and Internet performance. “In general, a customer’s bill will increase by less than 20%,” he stated. “That said, it is important to note that their lines speeds will increase by 250%.” “The only major fibre infrastructure provider to still offer 4Mbps speeds is Vumatel; we hope that they will follow Openserve’s move and deprecate it soon.” Wright noted that Netflix recommends a line speed of at least 5Mbps in order to stream HD content, meaning that moving to 10Mbps as a minimum standard is the correct decision to maintain network performance.  MWEB marketing manager Karin O’Donoghue also confirmed that its 4Mbps customers would be migrated. “Yes, our 4Mbps customers will be migrated to the closest matching 10Mbps product,” O’Donoghue said. “MWEB is in the process of contacting our customers with the information relevant per subscriber.” The ISP did not confirm whether its existing 4Mbps customers would see price increases once they are migrated.  MyBroadband sent queries for feedback to a number of other ISPs, many of which declined to comment or did not respond to queries. These ISPs include: