New statistics from OneDayOnly show that Pargo has experienced an increase of 57% in deliveries over the last 12 months. Pargo is a smart logistics company that makes it easy and affordable for online shops to get parcels to their clients. The company has pickup points in almost every town in South Africa, even small ones which previously had no access to online shopping. They also recently announced a partnership with Spar and the Lewis Group to further strengthen their already strong network. What sets Pargo’s Click and Collect delivery apart from other delivery methods is its reach into South Africa’s rural communities where parcel delivery can be challenging and expensive. This reach has seen many ecommerce companies offering this option to clients, including OneDayOny, HomeChoice, Wellness Warehouse, Cape Union Mart, Raru, Faithful to Nature, and FNB. Pargo told MyBroadband that a growing number of online shoppers are opting to use the Pargo Click and Collect delivery service in preference of traditional courier options. MyBroadband asked online daily deal company OneDayOnly about their experiences working with Pargo. “OneDayOnly has seen a 57% increase in online shoppers choosing Pargo delivery over the last 12 months,” Bernard Oberhofer, Executive Director at OneDayOnly said. OneDayOnly shared its delivery statistics with MyBroadband: Using the service can also be cheaper than courier services. “On OneDayOnly the Pargo option is about 7% cheaper compared to other courier services,” Oberhofer said. Pargo explained that many people use its service in preference of courier companies because they don’t have to be at home to wait for a courier. “35% of the shoppers that use Pargo collect their parcels outside business hours or during the weekend,” Pargo said. Pargo’s pickup point network encourages this by including points at popular retail outlets inside malls, convenient grocery stores, favourite corner shops, and garages with 24-hour opening hours. The affordability and convenience of Pargo has seen the company enjoy a 95% customer satisfaction rating, it added. For more information about Pargo, click here.