ElegantFoil has bought the ground-breaking Xerox Versant 3100 colour digital press from Xerox Business Partner, DigiPress and Altron Bytes Document Solutions (BDS). BDS is the largest Xerox distributor in the world, offering the complete range of document equipment, software solutions and services to 26 sub-Saharan Africa countries. ElegantFoil has long been a Xerox customer. This commercial finishing company was founded by George Carnell in 1986 as a foiling business, producing business cards, invitations and letterheads. As the business grew, its range of services expanded to include die-cutting, creasing, embossing and digital printing on a much larger scale. The business diversified into a complete trade finishing operation in 2016 and moved to new premises in Gosforth Park, Germiston. Following George’s retirement in that same year, the company is now under the leadership of his son Craig Carnell, Lana Chester & Brad Frew. “Our choice to upgrade to the Versant 3100 was necessary as the specs are far better on the new machine,” says Carnell. “Quality is the watchword on which our business has been built. Because we are a specialised shop, advantages like tighter registration are critical in delivering the fancy finishing that our customers demand. They expect quality as well as excellent turnaround times. Cost was a key consideration too, and the press came in at an attractive price.” The company’s first Xerox investment was in two Xerox 252s. These were replaced six years later with the Xerox J75 – the first to be sold in South Africa, and now the Versant 3100. Jason Patch, production systems group manager at Digilogix, says the upgrade was a logical move for ElegantFoil, and the company did not even consider other options. “Grammage was an important consideration for ElegantFoil” he says. “The Versant 3100 takes paper weights from 52gsm to 350gsm at a maximum sheet size of 330x660mm, which means increased productivity for the business.” Featuring advanced levels of automation and productivity, the Versant 3100 is an easy- to-use, fast, heavy-duty printer. A production workhorse, it prints at speeds up to 100 pages per minute, and handles average volumes of 250 000 per month. It’s an ideal choice for busy niche print shops like ElegantFoil, that need to turn jobs faster, boost productivity, and improve margins through automation. “It also comes with an inline spectrophotometer for increased colour automation, and it captures corporate colours with amazing accuracy, enabling the company to achieve what its competitors cannot. It’s also able to print on a wide range of media types, including coated and uncoated papers, bright papers, labels, business cards, glossy brochures and window decals, Jason Patch concludes. Carnell adds that there are other important benefits too. “We have a longstanding association with the Xerox sales teams, and good working relationships with the production and technical support staff. This is critical when you need efficiency, reliability and the ability to deliver excellent customer service at all times. Our relationship will continue to grow and we are excited to see what new technology Xerox will be developing in the future.” This article was published in partnership with Altron Bytes Document Solutions.