A new cryptocurrency exchange has launched in South Africa. BITTURE, the brainchild of information engineer and CEO Mduduzi Zulu, creates a more competitive crypto exchange landscape in the country. Its arrival affords newcomers and experienced traders a wider variety of Fintech platforms — offering low fees, high security and seamless usability. BITTURE offers customers a digital currency platform, trading in South African rand, Bitcoin and Ethereum, with more cryptocurrencies to be added over time. The platform’s user interface is simple and intuitive with a crisp look.  It contains advanced features and is a secure, functional trading environment. BITTURE features easy-to-access, detailed, real-time trading data and a dynamic orderbook with a high-speed order matching engine. Furthermore, the platform allows users to create and schedule reports for their trade, transaction and treasury activity. Beyond supreme user-friendliness, BITTURE’s fee structure is transparent, simple to understand and is positively comparable to other exchanges renowned for their low fees. BITTURE’s platform conforms to the CryptoCurrency Security Standard, supports two-factor authentication, fully encrypts users’ data and is protected against DDoS attacks. BITTURE aims to emerge as a leading digital currency exchange platform that is aligned with the unique needs and expectations of investors and business communities in developing economies. They aim to achieve this through the amalgamation of blockchain technology and the latest innovations in the realm of cryptocurrencies. According to Zulu: “Cryptocurrencies are fundamentally transforming the financial industry.  We expect the adoption and use of cryptos to increase. A cryptocurrency exchange is an enabler to a host of products and services that will be developed and built on top of the exchange service. We want people to learn, understand and use cryptos because that is the future of money.” Mduduzi co-founded BITTURE with fellow engineer Hendrik Botha. Each has over a decade’s worth of experience in engineering design and management of technical project execution and share an interest in emerging technologies and applications within the blockchain space. Mduduzi runs BITTURE on a full-time basis from its offices in Durban where he maintains oversight of the entire business. Hendrik’s focus is on the start-up process and business strategies. Hendrik also works with the Durban team on operational issues. Visit www.bitture.com to learn more about BITTURE and hassle-free cryptocurrency trading. Registration is quick and easy and account verification can be completed in three simple steps. Sign up here. This article was published in partnership with BITTURE.