Many South Africans would sign up for a DStv Premium or SuperSport-only streaming service, but it has to be at the right price. This is according to the results of MyBroadband’s 2018 DStv and Netflix Survey. The survey was taken by 9,857 MyBroadband readers and forum members – an excellent representation of South Africans with knowledge of the TV and streaming space. While DStv does offer the ability to stream its channels online – including SuperSport – this must be done through DStv Now, which is linked to your standard DStv account. This means users must have a DStv satellite TV subscription, as the DStv Now service only offers the user the channels which are available on their TV package. While DStv previously stated it has plans for a streaming-only package, nothing has been offered to local consumers to date. If a DStv Premium or SuperSport-only streaming product was offered, however, many South Africans would take it up. 30% of all survey respondents said they would only be willing to pay R100-R200 per month for a DStv Premium streaming service, though. This is well below the current R809 monthly price tag for Premium. 18% said they would pay between R200-R300 per month, while 10% said they would pay between R300-R400. Only 1% of respondents said they would be willing to pay R800-R1,000 per month for a DStv Premium streaming service. The infographic below shows the results of the survey. The graphic below shows feedback from all respondents; DStv subscribers; and non-DStv subscribers.  To access all of SuperSport’s channels currently, you must be a DStv Premium subscriber, as the channels are not available as a stand-alone service. When looking at SuperSport channels as a hypothetical streaming package, 60% of all respondents said they would be interested in the service. Price was once again an issue for respondents, and 40% of those who want a SuperSport-only streaming service are only willing to pay R100-R200 per month. 32% said they were only willing to pay up to R100 per month, while 18% said R200-R300 was a fair price. The graphic below shows feedback from all respondents; DStv subscribers; and non-DStv subscribers. 