Technology changes rapidly and constantly. Businesses need to choose between evolving alongside market trends or risk being left behind, according to Aumesh Hurry, NetSuite Sales Director for South Africa and the SADC region. “Companies who manage to take advantage of new technology will improve their adaptability, and can experiment and revolutionise use cases before the technology becomes mainstream,” he says. “Companies who scrape by on outdated technology, on the other hand, will face problems sooner rather than later.” The more adaptable an organisation, the more relevant it becomes, and the more resilient it becomes in the face of competition – which may mean the difference between barely surviving and successfully thriving, he adds. According to Hurry, SMEs looking to remain digitally relevant need to think and act big. “When looking at SME business needs, it is evident that they have similar needs to the bigger organisations, albeit on a smaller scale and probably with less complexity.” In order for them to remain digitally relevant, SMEs need to explore their options to help them go to market quickly and gain better control over their systems and data for a better return. “You have to be digitally-enabled to gain control over your systems, profit, and data. And if you fail to adopt the right technologies, you may be left behind.” One of the biggest obstacles facing companies hoping to transform digitally is moving from their legacy ERP to the cloud. Also, the old way of adopting technology with lengthy and complicated project plans, months- to year-long delays as well as drawn-out training and change management no longer meets the needs of modern business. With the current pace of change, SMEs need to be able to take on new technology quickly and easily. “If it takes you two to three years to react, you’re done as a business,” he adds. The benefits of migration from legacy systems to the cloud can outweigh the difficulties. By adopting a cloud-based infrastructure, SMEs can benefit from agility, rapid deployment, security, and relevance. In turn, companies will adapt to market demand faster, improve their exposure, and get closer to their existing and new customers, while keeping costs to a minimum. “This also minimises barriers to entry and allows companies to deliver at the pace of innovation – something these companies couldn’t do if they continue to rely on traditional systems,” he says. To assist companies looking to migrate to the cloud, NetSuite offers unified cloud-based business management software, providing the advantages and benefits of cloud ERP. This also encompasses cloud-based financials, CRM and ecommerce software, and is engineered to scale with businesses as they grow and streamline critical business processes. In turn, this allows companies to continue focusing on core business processes and to respond to new market opportunities swiftly and confidently. Dedicated to delivering business applications over the Internet, NetSuite runs the business of more than 40,000 companies, organisations, and subsidiaries across the world. Compared to other ERP systems, which focus on serving the needs of the employee, NetSuite is focused on meeting customers’ needs and follows a customer-centric model, helping small organisations manage their business the same way a larger business would be managed. From advanced financials, to supply chain management, to billing, and beyond, NetSuite ERP gives companies the tools they need to accelerate growth and drive innovation. NetSuite also recently announced it has incorporated machine learning and artificial intelligence into its platform. “We’re the very first company in the world to incorporate machine learning and artificial intelligence into our Cloud ERP,” he adds. “SMEs can now benefit from technological advances that are generally only available to big organisations with the means to afford such functionalities.” Learn more on the NetSuite website, request a Free Product Tour or email NetSuiteZA@netsuite.com. This article was published in partnership with NetSuite.