Vodacom has told customers it has updated its privacy policy, which can be viewed on the company’s website. “We are clearer and more precise on how we collect, handle and protect your personal data and have also explained the choices you have to control your information,” said Vodacom in an SMS to subscribers. According to Vodacom’s website, the privacy policy was updated on 19 June 2018. Several sections of Vodacom’s privacy policy contains reference to customer’s personal information, and how it is used by the company. The full policy is over 3,000 words long, and states that customer data is collected and used in multiple ways. A summary of references to customers’ personal information in the policy is detailed in the bullet points below. Information collection Vodacom can get your personal information when you: “With your permission or consent and/or as permitted by law, we may also collect information about you from other organisations or third parties. These include fraud-prevention agencies, business directories, credit reference agencies,” said Vodacom. The personal information Vodacom collects Vodacom’s use of personal information Vodacom may use and analyse information to: Vodacom sharing personal information Vodacom may share information about customers with: “If we’re reorganised or sold to another organisation, we may transfer any personal information we hold about you to that organisation,” said Vodacom. Vodacom also stated that it makes sure to keep all customers’ personal data safe. However, it added that: “Despite the security measures we have in place to protect your personal information (firewalls, password access and encryption methods ) you acknowledge that it may be accessed by unauthorised third party, e.g. as a result of an illegal activity.” Customers also have the right to “access, correct, amend, delete personal information, or to object to the processing of personal information”. “Upon receipt of your written request and enough information to permit us to identify your personal information, we will disclose to you the personal information we hold about you, for which we may make a charge as allowed by applicable law,” said Vodacom. “Requests to delete personal information are subject to any applicable legal and ethical reporting or document retention obligations imposed on us.”