Kevin Tucker started PriceCheck in 2006, sold it to Naspers in 2010, and bought it back in 2015 – where he is now CEO. After launching in South Africa, PriceCheck expanded into Nigeria during 2013, and lay claim to being Africa’s largest price comparison service when Tucker once again took the reigns. Tucker did not start his career running a successful ecommerce platform, however, and told MyBroadband his first job was as a waiter at St Elmo’s. “I earned R7.50 an hour,” he said. When Tucker finished university, he went to the UK and lived there for two years – doing “a lot of online shopping”. “When I found out there was no opportunity to compare prices online in South Africa, I saw a gap. So, I really just got into ecommerce and built PriceCheck out of a necessity to have comparison services in South Africa,” said Tucker. His career was then propelled by working smart and hard – which involved being dedicated, seeing opportunities, and taking advantage of situations. “I think that for me is the hard work: putting in the hours to fill a gap, rather than just slaving away at a particular role.” He said his lucky break came when Naspers was interested in his business and purchased it. “That kind of set me on the path to opening up to more opportunities. Selling the company to Naspers and going to work at Naspers really gave me an opportunity to network, reach people, and see opportunities around the world that I wasn’t necessarily aware of.” Tucker said that being the CEO of an ecommerce company has pros and cons, of which being passionate about his business is a big plus. “Having the business as an extension of one’s self is quite satisfying. So when you go out and talk about we and us, it really is you and your business, and I think that’s one of the best parts about being an owner and being a CEO.” “I think one of the worst parts is probably dealing with admin. Managing finances and making sure that you are on top of accounting is not my strong point. I am a product guy, so I really like the challenge of building products that millions of people will use. That’s what I really like, and I dislike administration intensely.” For those looking to get into the ecommerce game, Tucker recommends you identify target markets and do something that you are passionate about. “If you are passionate about something, very often these days it will morph into some kind of digital business. Whether its ecommerce or service sales, there are opportunities out there for you.” “I would say the best piece of advice I learned was not to wait around too long to do something, or someone else will do it before you do. Don’t hesitate with an opportunity, grab that opportunity, build your business whether you have to do it yourself or rope in family or friends. Build your business as soon as you can,” said Tucker.  Which smartphone do you use? A broken Xiaomi Mi 5. What is the best gadget you have ever bought? The original Pebble Kickstarter edition watch. What was the worst gadget you have ever bought? My laptop. I would not recommend it to anyone. What Internet connection do you have at home? I have 100Mbps fibre. What was the best investment you ever made? I would probably say Naspers. What was the worst investment you ever made? Steinhoff.