Cape Town and UK-based redPanda Software is looking to hire experienced core Java developers as it expands its partnership with PCMS in the UK. redPanda Software is an enterprise retail software development specialist with a focus on customer experience. The company is ideally placed to cater for retailers who want to position themselves competitively, by adding a layer of customisation to their client’s software which caters to both common operational systems and processes as well as client-specific needs. redPanda Software provides PCMS – a 30-year award-winning provider of world-leading global retail technology and solutions – with expert retail software development services. As a result of the growing demand from PCMS, redPanda Software is looking to grow its Cape Town-based development team. The new nine-member team will work alongside some of the most innovative and exciting retail minds using the latest trends and topics. “Developers in this team will be exposed to global brands, gaining international exposure. It’s a huge account that will give the team unparalleled experience,” says Gerhard Nortje, Business Development Manager at redPanda Software. The team will be made up of a development project manager, a technical lead, two senior Java developers (with over five-years’ experience), two intermediate Java developers (with at least three-years’ experience), two QA analysts, and a business analyst. “The team is going to be made up of mid to senior positions, and a background in Agile will be advantageous – as will a background in retail, since redPanda Software focuses on the retail industry,” adds Nortje. The positions are all based at redPanda Software’s head office in Pinelands, Cape Town. What impresses the developers working at redPanda Software is the strong community, where they are given the support they need to develop their career and learn new skills. “We are respected in our field and we aim to give customers great quality, but to achieve this, we believe that we need a long-term view of the staff that will be interacting with that customer, so we want our developers to have a fulfilling career,” says redPanda Software Group CEO Gareth Hawkey. The company culture at redPanda Software is built on two fundamental cornerstones: career growth and personal fulfilment. redPanda Software promotes from within and encourages developers to grow while giving them the best tools to achieve their goals. Developers also receive fantastic exposure to industry-standard technology, and the ability to work on projects for blue-chip clients. This affords them huge scope for career growth. The company also encourages a balanced lifestyle to ensure that developers find their work enjoyable and fulfilling, and are offered lessons in guitar, drumming, piano and art. “Developing people personally and creatively builds successful, innovative development teams,” adds Hawkey. “It is important for us to have engaged, passionate employees who are in it for the long run. A key element to achieving this is ensuring that employees maintain a good work-life balance.” To meet the candidates and introduce them to the culture at redPanda Software, they are hosting weekly open days at its head office. “During these open days, we will explore some of the technologies, methodologies, and well-structured benchmarked architecture that is used. Candidates will also be exposed to our working and social culture,” says Nortje. The open days will take place every Wednesday afternoon, and candidates can apply to attend by submitting their CV to the redPanda Software careers page. “The retail platform is evolving and along with it are the retail consumer trends, so ensuring that retailers are partnered with recognised leaders and specialists in the retail software and services offering is critical,” says Hawkey. “For us, ensuring that we have innovative people working on these teams, that are able to engage and most importantly grow and complement our partnership with PCMS is what we are looking at.” Hawkey and PCMS agree that, since the beginning of the partnership in 2016, the relationship has grown to create a positive ripple effect for the retailers involved. “With the success thus far as a result of this partnership, it was inevitable that we would look to grow the teams in Cape Town,” says PCMS. For more information, and to apply to attend an open day in Cape Town, visit the official redPanda Software website. This article was published in partnership with redPanda Software.