Vodacom, MTN, and Telkom are offering the exceptional Huawei Mate 10 Pro at unbeatable prices. An AI machine, the Huawei Mate 10 Pro offers unparalleled business-centric features, while incorporating class and cutting-edge innovation in a unique and stylish package. Being at the pinnacle of smartphone innovation, the Huawei Mate 10 Pro puts the power of AI into the hands of the user through superior camera capabilities, powerful battery management and performance optimisation. The device sports a Leica 12MP and 20MP dual camera, with real-time recognition and AI-powered bokeh effect, much like the Huawei P20 Pro – which features its own Leica camera system. Besides the fact that it offers one of the most advanced camera systems and opens the doors to intelligent photography, it also packs an amazing 4,000mAh battery – again, just like the P20 Pro – which offers smart battery management for heavy-duty use. Both smartphones are powered by the Kirin 970 processor with built-in NPU, driving a host of new premium features and creative tools for a superior smartphone experience. This month, local service providers have dropped their prices on the Huawei Mate 10 Pro, offering customers a phenomenal device at unbeatable prices. MTN’s price drop took place on 1 June, while Vodacom and Telkom cut their prices on 7 June. At these new prices, no other device beats the Huawei Mate 10 Pro in value for money. The new 24-month contract deals available for the Huawei Mate 10 Pro on Vodacom, Telkom, and MTN are listed below. Vodacom is offering the Huawei Mate 10 Pro on a Smart XS+ contract at R499 per month for 24 months. With this deal, customers get 350MB data, 50 minutes, and 50 SMSs per month.  The Huawei Mate 10 Pro is available on MTN Made for Me M for R649 per month for 24 months. As part of this deal, customers can get a Huawei P10 Lite device on MTN Choice Flexi for only R55 per month for 24 months.  Telkom offers the Huawei Mate 10 Pro for R449 per month on a 24-month contract. With this deal, customers get 1GB of data per month, free data for instant messaging, free calls to Telkom mobile and Telkom landline numbers, and free Wi-Fi at all Telkom hotspots.  This article was published in partnership with Huawei.