The second-hand car segment on Gumtree is seeing strong growth in South Africa, according to new Gumtree SA general manager Claire Cobbledick. Cobbledick was recently appointed as GM of the company, following her roles as head of marketing and head of core business at Gumtree. She replaced previous GM Johan Nel, who is moving abroad. Cobbledick said Gumtree is currently the country’s biggest online classifieds site and competes with News24 for the position of top-visited website in South Africa each month. “It’s a thrilling challenge to take on the GM role of such a thriving and important business that needs to constantly adjust to a very dynamic environment,” she said. Speaking to MyBroadband following her appointment, Cobbledick stated that the immediate plan for Gumtree is to deliver on its planned targets. “Although we will continue to follow a clearly-mapped strategy, there is a real urgency in the team to deliver growth and meet our ambitious targets,” said Cobbledick. She said the company has enjoyed a strong run in the first half of 2018, and achieved double-digit growth. There was a particularly strong performance in the motoring vertical, said Cobbledick. “We will continue to fuel motors, but with focus on bringing more features to the market.” With ecommerce set to experience continued growth in the country, she said Gumtree’s goal is to continue to support its sellers with more products and features. “Gumtree enables online trade for everyday South Africans, as well as for thousands of small-to-medium businesses. We will continue to support our sellers… enabling their trade,” said Cobbledick. “Like our parent eBay, supporting sellers is our primary focus, more than developing our own inventory,” she added, when asked about the potential expansion of its service offerings. Cobbledick also stated that the company is open to beneficial partnerships and collaborations, but declined to comment on whether it had any planned acquisitions in the works. The statements from Cobbledick come after a record year for Gumtree in South Africa in 2017. Gumtree said it experienced its fastest growth since it started operating in the country 11 years ago, last year. “It’s not just true for Gumtree. The entire ecommerce space has been reinvigorated,” said Nel in December 2017. 