The 2018 FIFA World Cup has kicked off, giving world-class football teams the chance to compete for the FIFA World Cup trophy. From 14 June until the final in Moscow on 15 July, SuperSport will broadcast an unprecedented offering of the month-long football tournament for DStv subscribers. By downloading the free DStv Now app and using Live TV streaming or Catch Up on the app, fans can enjoy all the matches anywhere, anytime – and witness every single World Cup goal scored. What’s more is that DStv customers can watch the World Cup from a multitude of devices, including desktops, laptops and a variety of Android and iOS-based tablets and smartphones. Customers planning to sign up should be aware that Live TV channels and Catch Up viewing vary according to subscription type. All 64 matches of the 2018 FIFA World Cup will be available to DStv Premium, Compact, and Compact Plus subscribers. Subscribers watching on their TV will also be treated to two 24-hour pop-up channels (SuperSport 13 and 14), dedicated entirely to the tournament with live-match commentary options in English, Portuguese, Pidgin English, Swahili, isiZulu and SeSotho, as well as regular news updates on the popular Blitz channel. To access the World Cup content and watch it on a smartphone or desktop, users can download the DStv Now app, which is available on Google Play for Android devices and on the App Store for iOS devices. To set it up, customers can tap on the DStv Now icon to open the app after it has been downloaded. Once opened, customers will be asked to register using their passport or ID number, and will be required to verify their personal details. After verification of registration, users will be asked to fill in their name, email, and password to finish setting up and creating their account. Customers who have already registered for a Connect ID can use their existing account to log in to the DStv Now app and start streaming immediately. As DStv customers can stream on two devices, non-subscribers can watch any World Cup match for free by simply using their parents’ or other family members’ shared login details. Download the DStv Now app now and open a world of entertainment, which is available anytime anywhere. To find out more, go to now.dstv.com » This article was published in partnership with DStv Now.