The largest tech show in Asia, COMPUTEX TAIPEI 2018 opens its door today in Taipei. Taking place from June 5-9, the annual event focuses on its six major themes: AI, 5G, Blockchain, IoT, Innovations & Startups, and Gaming & VR. The expo is closely watched by industry professionals, talent buyers and media around the globe and is to set the industry paradigm for the rest of the year. The world leading gaming brand MSI shows off a good chunk of premium gaming products at booth L0818, Taipei Nangang Exhibition Center, Hall 1. “MSI has always had a reputation for delivering high-end gaming products designed to provide a wholly enrapturing gaming experience for gamers,” says Sam Chern, MSI Assistant Vice President of Global Marketing, “This year, MSI has elevated our gaming lineups to elite level with Intel’s new 8th-generation CPUs laptops and desktops, gaming monitors, gaming motherboards and MSI Streaming Boost, gaming graphics card as well as gaming gears.” With the Asia’s premier tech fair now in full swing, a flurry of tech annoucements are coming fast and furious. MSI is no exception. First came the debut of thin-and-light gaming MSI GF63 and new Prestige roster PS42, both pack Coffee Lake powered CPU with almost bezel-less display. In addition exciting latops, MSI has more to show off, the Dragon Center 2.0. Running on MSI’s gaming laptops with the latest 8th Gen. Core processors, the redesigned Dragon Center features monitoring and optimizing system performance through various customizable profiles and freeing up system memory to prioritize in-game performance. Better yet, its Game Mode even lets gamers select between popular game titles and instantly enabled pre-programmed macros that are popular in the game’s community. More to expect from MSI including Trident A series gaming desktop, Oculux series gaming monitors with NVIDIA G-SYNC built-in and Optix MAG series curved gaming monitors, B450 TOMAHAWK gaming motherboard and MSI Streaming Boost, GTX 1080 Ti GAMING X TRIO and Vigor GK80 GAMING Keyboard. Get an up-close and personal look at Booth L0818 to see what MSI has to offer from the show floor! Sporting the latest 8th Generation Intel Core processors, the MSI Trident A series features the first compact desktop PC to incorporate an SFX power supply and a MSI graphics cards in a 12-liter case. The sturdy glass side panel shows your unlimited gaming power and personalized gaming style. The powerhouse also houses “Silent Storm Cooling” thermal system utilizing three airflow streams to cool major components while gaming. The Trident A series, with its state-of-art technology and a refined design, makes it the ultimate platform for gamers.  The Oculux NXG251 series boasts first gaming monitor with NVIDIA G-SYNC compatibility and wields a mind-blowing 240Hz refresh rate with 0.5 ms response time TN LED panel that is ideal in fast-paced, competitive games. With Mystic Light Sync, gamers can craft their RGB lighting on the back to show a distinctive personalization at a LAN party or during a live stream.  The Optix MAG271CR/ MAG241CR series bundles MSI’s new Gaming Echo function, the RGB zone on the back reacts to the in-game audio and lighting effects. Pairing that with a 144Hz display and super-fast 1ms response time VA LED panel, the Optix MAG series delivers flawless and smooth gaming experience. Moreoever, the display carries the Gaming OSD (on screen display) software that allows you to control the monitor’s settings, including the contrast ratio, brightness and black equalizer right from Windows desktop. The user-friendly app even supports in-game hotkey options that you can switch customized profiles between different games.  Inspired by military concepts, the new B450 TOMAHAWK motherboard perfectly demonstrates stronger, tougher and heavier design – designed and optimized for 2nd Generation AMD Ryzen Processors, with support for these AMD processors in the AM4 platform. With an MSI exclusive extended heatsink, the extended PWM and enhanced circuit design helps ensure incredible thermal performance for superior cooling to enable optimal performance, even from high-end AMD Ryzen 7 processors. The B450 TOMAHAWK also includes a customizable sticker area that allows gamers to choose their favorite sticker styles for the heatsink cover, and Mystic Light allows gamers to personalize RGB effects with 16.8 million colors and 10 LED effects. AMD Native Turbo USB 3.1 Gen 2 offers never before seen USB speeds with uninterrupted connection and more stability.  MSI Streaming Boost is specifically tailored for mobile game streamers to fully and easily fulfill their every need for streaming. Featuring plug & play without installing drivers, it allows streamers to effortlessly begin their streaming without delay. Better yet, its full HD support avoids picture degradation and provides up to 1920×1080 resolution. The Streaming Boost also supports resolution adjustment for various scenarios. Feature-packed and user-friendly, MSI Streaming Boost is streamers’ best partner for efficient, superb streaming experience. MSI GeForce GTX 1080 Ti GAMING X TRIO features three of the award-winning TORX 2.0 fans and Mystic Light RGB, offering a cool and quiet performance during gameplay. Together with Military Class certified components, the top-tier card is bound to boost your gaming experience. MSI’s Mystic Light enables you to customize the RGB effects of your MSI hardware to your liking. Using the user-friendly Mystic Light software, you can alter three zones of LED lights individually on the shroud and back plate. Furthermore, you can synchronize colors and effects of your graphics card, motherboard, case-fans and peripherals to enhance the gaming atmosphere surrounding you.  Built on a tough and durable aluminum frame, the Vigor GK80 provides everything you would expect from a classy mechanical gaming keyboard. Equipped with Cherry MX Switches, RGB Mystic Light and hotkeys, the top-tier keyboard excels at what it aims to do. Besides, the additional keycaps can be stored into the underside of the full-sized wrist rest. The Vigor GK80 highlights dedicated media keys for easy access to volume controls and gamer’s favorite tunes while gaming. The integrated USB pass-through port can be used to connect other peripherals such as a mouse or a headset. On top of that, gamers can change their keyboards’ outlook by choosing from millions of colors and multiple effects using Mystic Light RGB. The premium keyboard also comes with Mystic Light Sync, so colors and effects can be easily synchronized with other RGB components and peripherals for a stunning show.  This article was published in partnership with MSI.