MyBroadband recently tested the mobile network quality in the North West as part of its countrywide mobile network testing project. The MyBroadband mobile network testing project is conducted in partnership with Afristay and Samsung, and provides a comprehensive look at cellular network quality in South Africa. Coverage and data throughput tests are conducted using the MyBroadband Speed Test App, running on our Samsung Galaxy S9 smartphone test bench. SIMs from Vodacom, MTN, Cell C, and Telkom are used in the Galaxy S9 phones, and performance tests are conducted at regular intervals while driving. MyBroadband’s speed test servers are hosted in Teraco’s vendor-neutral data centres to ensure an impartial testing environment. The latest route covered was from Johannesburg to Rustenburg and back, with a stop in Brits. Thousands of speed tests were conducted along the route and in the cities. We then calculated the Network Quality Score for the region and for each town, which took download speed, upload speed, and latency into account. The Network Quality Score out of 10 shows how the networks performed in relation to each other. Understanding the maps below: Each of the red dots with a green circle around them indicate a test in that area. Larger red dots indicate multiple tests. MTN and Vodacom offered excellent coverage along the N4 route between Johannesburg and Rustenburg. Vodacom took the win by achieving an average download speed of 25Mbps, upload speed of 9Mbps, and the lowest latency. MTN was a close second, with a download speed of 21Mbps, and upload speed of 9Mbps. Cell C placed third, and Telkom fourth overall.  In Brits, Vodacom had the fastest download speed and upload speed by quite a margin. Cell C and Telkom came in second and third, respectively, with MTN in fourth.  Performance on the Vodacom and MTN networks in Rustenburg was incredibly close. Ultimately, Vodacom’s higher download speed (25Mbps vs 22Mbps) and lower latency won over MTN’s higher average upload throughput (10Mbps vs 9Mbps).  Courtesy of Afristay, we spent two nights at the Hunters Rest hotel in Olifantsnek near Rustenburg. Hunters Rest offered beautiful views and comfortable rooms, and its staff delivered excellent service. Whether serving breakfast or dinner, the restaurant’s buffet was outstanding, and made sure we were well fed and watered for our drive. 