Have you been a recipient of a call from a parent asking why their phone is so slow? Better yet, have you ever asked yourself why your phone isn’t as fast as it was on day one? How do you solve this problem plaguing thousands of smartphones each year and how can you assist your parent, even without their phone in your hand? According to StatCounter Global Stats an 80.36% majority of South African smartphone users make use of the Android operating system. However, the performances of today’s Android devices tend to decline over time. This could be frustrating to both you and your parents, but before you can tackle it, you have to first understand what causes it. Research has shown that smartphone users, especially middle-aged people, love sharing video clips and pictures via social platforms such as WhatsApp and Facebook Messenger. Sharing of content is more frequent when family members live apart and don’t want to miss out on life’s special memories. However, when a device is used for an extended period of time, its cache can easily get clogged up. Coupled with the fragmentation caused by deleted pictures and videos, the file read and write speeds tend to slow down with usage. Fragmentation occurs when files consist of fragments of data are spread across a storage unit and tend slow down the operation of the device. It is also one of the major problems that affects the Android platform. However, even under normal circumstances, saving and deleting of files could lead to a slower device. The longer a device is used, the larger the sizes of files storing data such as contacts, call history and photos become, leading to slower storage query and data fetching speeds. The underlying reason of the slow-down is the Completely Fair Scheduler (CFS) in the Android system, which does not  prioritize the applications that are being used. In an Android device, applications compete with one another for system resources, from Central Processing Unit (CPU) and Graphics Processing Unit (GPU) time to memory and storage, often resulting in the app which the user is using not getting sufficient access. In a typical scenario, the longer the device is used, the more apps are running in the background; and when there are more apps open, the less resources there are to go around, therefore the slower devices become. If you want your parents to enjoy a smooth device experience, one that is unhindered by any lag over time, you have to identify the cause and apply the right fix. Start by asking what the device is being used for and request that some of the unused files be deleted. Most Android devices allow the user to check how storage is being used under the “Settings” menu and then under “Storage,” where a break down is given of the devices capacity being used. Despite this the life expectancy of a smartphone does not even fulfil the duration of a 24 month contract. Research firm, Recon Analytics rate the life span of a smartphone is expected to reach 21 months. However, with a more customer-centric approach, Huawei has sought to offer customers an extended smartphone experience with a device that stays as fresh as day for longer. When the HUAWEI MATE 9 smartphone was released in 2016, the Android-based EMUI 5.0 operating system was launched to optimise the efficiency of the device. EMUI 5.0 sorts messages, alerts, photos and videos, while handy shortcuts help find apps and block notifications faster. EMUI 5.0 also featured a Machine Learning algorithm through its CPU, which learns from the way the user made use of apps to ensure hardware is adequately assigned to apps being used. Through tireless research and testing, Huawei identified many scenarios in which it was easy for users to accidentally press the wrong thing. But with EMUI 5.0, these glitches are a thing of the past. The operating system has since evolved into the EMUI 8.0 OS for an even more intuitive experience. Equipped with the powerful AI-enhanced Kirin 970 SoC and the heavily optimized EMUI 8.0 featured in the HUAWEI Mate 10 Pro is capable of completely remedying the Android slowdown problem. Furthermore, the AI smart engine can study your parents’ phone habits and predict their behaviors to realize an 18-month long smooth user experience. EMUI 8.0 also allocates hardware to give more CPU and memory to the apps used for a smoother experience. Low memory management with the operating system rearranges memory space to reduce fragmentation, and compress memory to save space for more important apps. Further AI engine optimisation based on user behavior scheduling resources, bring a more durable fast experience, whenever you’re scrolling pictures in gallery, browsing contacts in address book or opening background running apps. This article was published in partnership with Huawei.