The South African Reserve Bank (SARB) has released the results of Project Khoka, a proof-of-concept settlement platform based on distributed ledger technology (DLT). With ConsenSys as its technical partner, the goal of the project was to build a proof of concept system that handles real-time gross settlements. RTGS refers to specialised transfer systems where money or securities are moved in real-time between financial institutions. Currently, the reserve bank runs a system called SAMOS (South African Multiple Option Settlement system) to perform real-time gross settlements between local banks. Project Khoka aims to replicate some of the functionality of SAMOS in a distributed ledger. ConsenSys provided its Ethereum-based permissioned blockchain product, Quorum, which only had its official commercial launch on 9 March. It then connected eight banks who signalled interest in the project to its network, and set up test cases to see how well the distributed ledger processed transactions. The banks connected to the network were the SARB, Absa, Capitec, Discovery, Investec, FirstRand, Nedbank, and Standard Bank. In addition to testing whether the technology could outperform SAMOS, the aim of the proof of concept was also to gain a practical understanding of the technology. No real transactions were processed, though the reserve bank said it aimed to make the tests as realistic as possible. Project Khoka set out to test whether the following is true of an Ethereum-based real-time gross settlement system: All of the above requirements were met. During the final tests conducted on the system, Project Khoka was able to process the typical daily transaction volume of South African financial institutions within 2 hours. The network is configured in such a way that the reserve bank does not need to check and approve all the transactions. Instead the banks themselves approve transactions on the network, while keeping the details of transactions that do not involve them confidential. This means that even if SARB’s node is down, banks can continue to make settlements. Tests also included invalid transactions, where incorrect identifiers were provided, or where the bank did not have sufficient funds to make a transfer. While the SARB’s report provided some details of their findings, it said that the full results of the work will be released through the course of the year. “The business case for implementing DLT systems is usually not made on a like-for-like replacement basis,” the reserve bank noted. SAMOS is no different, and doing a straight replacement with a DLT system equivalent would probably not be clear-cut, SARB said. “What is more interesting is the broader impact of a DLT system and the kinds of things it enables as applications and use cases are built around it.” A logical next step from Project Khokha might be an economic impact analysis of the implementation of DLT under a number of scenarios, it added. “Such a study would need to consider varying degrees of DLT usage in the economy and would be an important parallel piece of work to further experiments with the technology.”