If you receive an SMS advert from a pizza joint, should you have to pay to reply “Stop” and opt out? And if you do decide to reply “Stop”, how long should you have to reply before your opt-out is no longer valid? These were two questions raised when a MyBroadband reader recently contacted us about a Roman’s Pizza SMS advert he received. While two larges pizzas for R129.90 may be a tempting offer, the reader said he replied “Stop” to the SMS advert on two occasions – both of which failed to deliver to the number from where the advert came. He then received the same SMS advert a week later. MyBroadband contacted Roman’s Pizza about the SMS advert, and the company stated there were two factors at play: In essence, if you do not have airtime and you do not reply within seven hours, the “Stop” SMS will not work. The issue of South African consumers paying for a “Stop” SMS has been debated many times before. In 2016, MyBroadband reported on the Consumer Protection Act (CPA) and its requirement for direct marketing companies to provide a mechanism for recipients of SMS advertising to opt-out at no cost. However, while there is no charge from the marketing company to send the “Stop” SMS, your mobile network still levies the cost of the SMS. While this may only be around 50c for a user, it appears in contrast to the CPA – especially when WASPs and direct marketing companies have the option to use a reverse-billing channel, and pay the SMS charge on behalf of the consumer. The matter of the seven-hour reply path is also of concern, according to an industry expert who spoke to MyBroadband on condition of anonymity. “Seven hours is a bit short for a user to be able to opt out, surely? What if I work night shift and I’m sleeping when I receive the SMS?” he stated. The expert said top SMS service providers can match replies to sent messages up to six months later. To get clarity on the issue, MyBroadband spoke to WASPA Chairman Anthony Ekerold about the SMS charge and reply window. Ekerold said that currently, there is no across-the-board requirement to have a zero-rated opt-out SMS. “However, this is under review by WASPA and other industry stakeholders,” he said. In terms of the seven-hour reply window, Ekerold said there is no defined reply path time frame in the current version of the WASPA Code of Conduct. “WASPA will, however, raise the issue for adoption at the next Code of Conduct meeting.” Ekerold added that WASPA’s Do Not Contact database, which is currently under development, will help reduce the chances of a consumer receiving multiple messages from the same company, even if they use multiple WASPs or bulk SMS providers.