Today marks World Wi-Fi Day – celebrated around the world in the aim of bridging the digital divide experienced across both emerging, as well as some developed markets. In a world where Wi-Fi performance has really improved and continues to do so, there is no doubt that – as South Africans – we should recognise and celebrate the fundamental role that Wi-Fi is playing within the local context. Connecting the unconnected is what wireless solutions aim towards and today, we celebrate the massive advancement in this sector. In fact, it is one of the most pervasive wireless communications technologies available across the globe today – whether in the home or office environment – given that it is easy to install, is cost effective and enables high-speed connectivity across all devices – regardless of users. In fact, today, there are more than 9 billion Wi-Fi enabled devices in the world, with 63% of global mobile device traffic predicted to be consumed via Wi-Fi by 2021. But let’s take a look at where it started… In 1997 Wi-Fi was first released for public consumption – defined by the creation of IEEE802.11 set of standards for WLANs and offered the market 2Mbps of wireless speeds. From here, it merely sky-rocketed with the development of Wi-Fi routers, where Wi-Fi was introduced for home use in 1999. In 2003, Wi-Fi technology development resulted in much faster speeds and geographical coverage and rapidly began to catch up with wired forms of connectivity. Fast forward to 2012, where we witnessed a much stronger focus on concentrated data transmission – improving connectivity even further, offering greater alternatives to fixed broadband connectivity and driving stronger connectivity amongst people that may once not have had the opportunity to connect. If we look at where we are today however, there is no doubt that Wi-Fi standards and technologies have rapidly advanced and developed to exceed the demand for wireless connectivity. Today, we highly anticipate the all-new 801.11ax standard which is currently in development and will offer speeds of over 1Gbps to multiple connected devices, simultaneously. This advancement is expected to be available by late 2019/early 2020 and – as South Africans – we have something to really be excited about. Through this, we believe Wi-Fi will further enable connectivity at home, in the workplace and – very critically, in public hotspots, providing connectivity to the masses. However, more prominent than merely connecting people for the use of email and Google, is the opportunity that Wi-Fi presents when it comes to newer, dynamic technologies. If we consider the power of the Internet of Things (IoT) and how this is driving business and lifestyle, then certainly Wi-Fi has a fundamental role to play and those that want to be ahead of the curve and set up for sound technological advancement should be considering the power of Wi-Fi now, not waiting until tomorrow. Some Wi-Fi based technologies and equipment have specifically been developed for long range, outdoor Fixed Wireless Broadband Access, allowing service providers like WIRUlink to offer reliable, true uncapped broadband internet access at locations that cannot be economically serviced by fibre. This is great news if we consider that fibre technologies are expensive to deploy and that most South Africans will not get access to fibre for many years to come. It means inexpensive Wi-Fi based wireless internet access for all – allowing the portion of the population that may have once felt “forgotten”, in the larger connectivity mix, to enjoy the freedom of the same unlimited, fast internet access enjoyed in the metros. To celebrate World Wi-Fi Day, WIRUlink are offering special promotions today. Visit https://goo.gl/qYasZy to see WIRUlink’s one day only Wi-Fi Day special on a 10Mbps Uncapped Wireless Broadband internet access. This article was published in partnership with WIRUlink.