On 25 May 2018, the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) came into effect, yet many South African companies have yet to attain compliance. The GDPR imposes new rules on companies, government agencies, non-profits, and other organisations that offer goods and services to people in the European Union (EU), or that collect and analyse data tied to EU residents. “The GDPR applies no matter where you are located,” says David Stevens, delivery lead at Mint Management Technologies. “Organisations based in South Africa that offer goods or services to EU citizens or monitor their behaviour are affected by the regulation. Essentially, those conditions apply to all companies processing or holding personal data of people residing in the EU – even companies in South Africa.” Stevens adds that the new regulation impacts all aspects of business, especially the processing or storing data about individuals that are protected by GDPR. Organisations need to fully understand GDPR to ensure compliance with regard to users and personal data, he added. “To understand GDPR sounds like an obvious first step, but there is a misconception that, because it deals with EU citizens, it doesn’t affect businesses in South Africa – and that is simply wrong,” says Stevens. “Organisations need to accept that they probably are affected by GDPR if they are storing data about people. There are going to be some very big fines for the people that plead ignorance.” Under GDPR, individuals have the right to access their personal data, correct any errors or erase their personal data, and can object to the processing of such data. Organisations are also required to protect personal data using appropriate security, should notify authorities of personal data breaches, must obtain appropriate consents for processing data, and should keep records detailing any data processing. Transparent policies are required under GDPR, and organisations are required to provide clear notice of data collection, should outline processing purposes and use cases, and must define data retention and deletion policies. “To assist companies with their GDPR compliance, Microsoft offers a Compliance Manager that works across the company’s cloud solutions, including Dynamics 365,” says Stevens. “It helps you understand where you have compliance obligations and is the fastest way to streamline the compliance process of an organisation.” Microsoft’s Compliance Manager allows organisations to manage their regulatory compliance activities in the Microsoft Cloud, protect their customer data, and supports user privacy, while also offering clients audit reports in line with GDPR compliance. Through Compliance Manager, Microsoft helps businesses locate and catalogue the personal data in their systems, build a more secure environment, simplify their management and monitoring of personal data, and offers the tools and resources organisations need to meet the GDPR reporting and assessment requirements. Microsoft has also designed Dynamics 365 with industry-leading security measures and privacy policies to safeguard data in the cloud, including the categories of personal data identified by the GDPR. “Controlling who has access to personal data is a key to securing that data, and data security is a critical requirement of the GDPR,” says Stevens. “Dynamics 365 can help businesses on their journey to reducing risks and achieving compliance with the GDPR.” Dynamics 365 enables organisations to manage and control access to data in several ways: “In addition to the features offered by Microsoft’s Compliance Manager and Dynamics 365, organisations need to determine if they are data controllers or data processors, as the obligations are slightly different for each,” says Stevens. A data controller owns and controls the data, and has added responsibility of protecting the rights of the individual, while a data processor will process data on behalf of a controller and cannot change the purpose or use of a particular set of data. Data controllers have an added responsibility to ensure that the data processors are aware of their GDPR obligations, and may need to appoint a data protection officer. Controllers also need to be able to answer four questions as an organisation in terms of GDPR, according to Stevens: “An IT solution provider can assist organisations in ensuring their people, processes, and technology enable GDPR compliance, and should enable systems to answer those four questions and provide the technical and software solutions to enable GDPR compliance,” says Stevens. For more information, visit the Mint Management Technologies website.  Stevens has over 13 years’ of experience in business consulting, project implementations and business management across multiple technologies, spanning different sectors such as mining, electricity, banking, telecommunications, broadcasting, auditing and hospitality. He has developed a passion for digital transformation in the productivity space and spends a lot of his spare time trying to figure out “what’s next” in enabling true digital transformation for Mint’s customers.  This article was published in partnership with Mint Management Technologies.