Windows updates can bring great new features and performance improvements, but they can also cause problems for PC users. The updates are tested by Microsoft before they are pushed to consumers, but no software is perfect on every system and customers can experience issues – depending on their specific setup. Changes made to the operating system could affect applications installed on the Windows machine, too, and result in potentially serious bugs. If you encounter these problems and want to get back up and running as soon as possible, one of the best things you can do is to “software reset” your Windows 10 PC. This refers to the clean installation of an operating system, and has been recommended by the likes of Softpedia Microsoft News Editor Bogdan Popa as a way to remove bugs after an update. Software issues after the installation of a new Windows 10 update are common, with Microsoft releasing a dedicated Windows Update Troubleshooter to help resolve problems. These issues can range from minor to major, with certain apps simply not opening correctly or others causing an entire system to crash. In extreme cases, your PC may fail to boot after updating to a new version of Windows, or hardware will no longer work due to driver conflicts. Small problems are easily corrected, but those who have a lot of old software piled into their machine may wish to take more serious measures. Many problems with big Windows updates are caused by poor software migration, and this can be avoided by reducing the number of applications and files on your PC prior to updating – or backing them up and reinstalling them after a software reset. Resetting your machine using the newest version of Windows and installing your files afterwards can prevent migration errors or bugs.  The process for resetting your operating system in Windows 10 is straightforward and can be completed relatively quickly. Whether you are attempting to eliminate bugs, or want to avoid any unknown conflicts, you should begin by backing up your files. This can be done by moving files and programs you wish to keep to a dedicated folder in an external hard drive, a separate partition in your internal hard drive, or in Google Drive. The next step is to navigate to the backup and recovery options in the Windows 10 Settings menu and search for the “Reset this PC” option. After making this selection, you should select the option to delete all files and applications, but not the “restore factory defaults” option – as this will revert to the version of Windows first installed on the PC. Your machine will then proceed to clear all of your software and files while installing a clean image of the latest version of Windows 10, with much less potential for bugs. After this process is complete, you can restore your files back onto your machine’s storage drive by downloading them from your backup. While there is still potential for bugs with certain software, this process can reduce the change of any errors being caused by migration of third-party software and data during an update.