Most devices today come with password and passcode security to protect it from unauthorised intrusion. However, these measures aren’t failsafe guards against criminals who are determined to access confidential business information. Controlling access to that data is critical, as a security breach can expose businesses and individuals to massive threats. For this reason, Lenovo’s fingerprint technology is designed to enhance security on ThinkPad devices by protecting biometric data using 8th-Gen Intel Core vPro processors. Lenovo’s ThinkPad fingerprint sensor captures a fingerprint image. Software then extracts information about the image and generates a template that’s used to compare against future fingerprint scans. When a user tries to access the computer, fingerprint sensing technologies read the ridges and valleys in the fingerprints, convert the information to electronic data, and compare that data with stored data to look for a match. Thanks to the latest touch-sensor technology, users can place fingerprints on the scanner at any angle. To prevent biometric hacking, however, Lenovo integrates a robust anti-spoofing algorithm called Quantum Matcher – based on image analysis with machine learning. This means the template can’t be reverse-engineered to create a fingerprint image, and users can experience the greatly reduced probability of spoofing attacks. This means fewer worries about unauthorised ThinkPad access for owners. The secure fingerprint system balances the following components: The device adds a further layer of security by securing a user’s fingerprint in the biometric reader itself. This means it is not stored on the device’s hard drive, which could potentially be available to criminals. Between the security chip and the fingerprint reader, a user’s biometrics are kept completely secured in the device before it speaks to the Windows operating system. Lenovo ThinkPad security doesn’t stop there. Newer ThinkPad devices are now also configured with an Infrared camera and Mirametrix Glance to provide facial recognition authentication. Attention-sensing software Glance by Mirametrix allows device owners’ the novelty of locking the PC without even touching it, through presence, face, eye, and gaze sensing, so no wandering eye can look upon confidential files which may be open. New ThinkPad models are also available with a built-in shutter over the front camera for maximised privacy. “Most computers these days come with many security features, but these features are similar to locking your front door and putting the key under the mat – which means it isn’t really secure,” said Julian Pienaar, Pre-sales and Product Technologist at Lenovo. “Lenovo makes sure that users have a line of security on the software side as well as the hardware side.” For more information about ThinkPad technology, watch the short video below.  This article was published in partnership with Lenovo.