Small and medium businesses in South Africa have been pinpointed by the South African government as a way to stimulate economic growth in the country and help solve the large unemployment problem. Many of these businesses fail within the first five years, however, due to growth and operational challenges – resulting from the need to integrate new technologies and applications with limited resources, improve storage and management of data, stay current on technology and security standards, and closely manage both project timelines and costs. “At Innovo Networks, we aim to support the ongoing growth of SMEs,” says Damian Michael, Innovo Networks CEO and founder. “They need to prepare for success, and we are providing a platform that will help them grow, be sustainable, and ensure that they will not fail.” Innovo Networks is a communications and solutions provider that uses technology expertise and service delivery capabilities to accelerate the business ambitions of its clients and transform SMEs through the use of the best information and communications technology. The company provides a complete enterprise-quality communication solution, with a free mobile app for internal and external calls, while connecting multiple branches, and aims to provide equal access to technology, opportunity, and new financing models for businesses in South Africa. “We understand the global business and technology landscape and strive to make our clients’ businesses accelerate, taking them to the next level,” adds Michael. “Technological advancements are increasing at a rapid pace, and therefore our game changing solution and pricing model helps every SME in South Africa stay afloat.” Innovo Networks offers experienced consultants that can help enable the IT environments of SMEs to support their business needs. “Wherever your business stands in the transformation lifecycle, from evaluating tools and platforms to designing your supporting infrastructure, a professional team can help you get past the hurdles, accelerate your project’s completion, and help you realise the full benefits of your investment,” says Michael. The company has a full range of services, from hosted pbx, internet, cyber-security, SD Wan and cloud with its key services for SMEs including: “Our experts can implement customised solutions to address your technology needs, while also monitoring and managing their performance—freeing up your IT resources to focus on central business objectives,” concludes Michael. “Whether you need to improve the experience of your end-users, expand your web presence or ecommerce capabilities, or introduce new applications to help you meet changing business goals, we can help transform your business.” For more information, visit the Innovo Networks website. This article was published in partnership with Innovo Networks.