MyBroadband recently tested the mobile network quality in the southern and western regions of the North West as part of its countrywide testing project. The MyBroadband mobile network testing project is conducted in partnership with Afristay and Samsung, and provides a comprehensive look at cellular network quality in South Africa. Coverage and data throughput tests are conducted using the MyBroadband Speed Test App, running on our Samsung Galaxy S9 test bench. A SIM from Vodacom, MTN, Cell C, and Telkom was used in the Galaxy S9 phones, and performance tests were conducted at regular intervals while driving. MyBroadband’s speed test servers are hosted in Teraco’s vendor-neutral data centres to ensure an impartial testing environment. The latest route tested was along the N12 through Klerksdorp and Potchefstroom, with thousands of speed tests conducted. We then calculated the Network Quality Score for the region and for the towns, taking download speed, upload speed, and latency into account. The score out of 10 shows how the networks performed in relation to each other. Understanding the maps below: Each of the small red dots with a green circle around it indicates a test in that area. Larger red dots indicate multiple tests in the area. Vodacom was the best-performing network on the N12 route we tested. It also achieved the highest average download speed in all the towns we tested, and posted good upload speed and latency results.  Vodacom had the best average download speed in Wolmaransstad – 28Mbps – while MTN achieved 12Mbps. Both networks posted average upload speeds of 6Mbps.  Vodacom and Cell C were neck-and-neck in Klerksdorp, with Vodacom taking the win with a download speed of 26Mbps. Cell C’s average download speed was 22Mbps, but it had Vodacom pipped in uploads and latency.  Vodacom posted a convincing win in Potchefstroom, with an average download speed of 32Mbps. Telkom had an average download throughput of 23Mbps, but it was not enough to beat MTN for second place.  Thanks to our project partner Afristay, we spent the night at the Grootbosch Lodge outside Klerksdorp and Akkerlaan Guesthouse in Potchefstroom.  Akkerlaan is centrally located and offered a wonderful mixture of quaint and modern rooms. The guest house is divided into two sections. The back section has its own parking area and security gate, and the rooms and hallways have wooden floors. In the main house, where the reception and the restaurant are located, rooms have a more modern feel. Staff at Akkerlaan provided excellent service during our stay, and put out a great spread for breakfast every morning.   Grootbosch is a wedding venue on the outskirts of Klerksdorp, which also offers a bed and breakfast service. Grootbosch provided a quiet getaway for us, while still being beside the main road. The venue was beautiful and well-kept, and the staff were friendly and helpful.