Fibre-to-the-business (FTTB) is gaining traction in South Africa, with over 150,000km of fibre Internet network infrastructure laid out nationally. The number of homes and businesses passed by fibre also increased by 112% in the past year, according to data from the FTTX Council. Many businesses make use of wireless Internet over fibre, however, and over 22.5 million South Africans are wirelessly connected, according to the Internet Access in South Africa study by World Wide Worx. Nashua, a leading provider of integrated business solutions, has evaluated whether fibre or wireless is better for business, with the pros and cons of each detailed below. Fibre is becoming increasingly popular because, as a fixed-line service, it is more stable, robust, and reliable than wireless. Because fibre is underground, the reliability of its signal is not affected by the elements – which can affect a wireless signal – and the signal remains clear over long distances. The cables can be accidentally dug up, however, which will result in Internet downtime. Optical fibre also transmits much faster speeds than wireless. Fibre can be scaled up to high-speed bandwidth easily, too, and it is rolling out quickly in South Africa – which is improving its affordability and turnaround time to installation in most metro areas. Wireless, on the other hand, can be deployed far quicker than fibre, and can be less expensive, although more reputable wireless providers are not necessarily cheaper than fibre providers. The signal for a wireless connection can be affected by poor weather conditions or interference from other antennas. Wireless signals also degrade with distance, and the further away the user is from the broadcast station, the weaker the signal will be. Even a strong wireless connection struggles to support high traffic and multiple users, since all users share the same bandwidth and the amount of available spectrum is limited. A poor-quality line isn’t conducive to data-intensive services, such as VoIP, either, so businesses that choose a wireless connection need to ensure that they partner with a reputable provider. Overall, fibre is the best option for most businesses due to its reliability, speed, and scalability. It also offers more bandwidth, which is essential for business that want to introduce new technologies or to move more applications to the cloud. For quick deployment, however, wireless is still the best bet. To solve the concerns about slower fibre deployment, though, Nashua offers clients an interim wireless solution, which is then replaced by a fibre connection. Nashua is offering businesses free installation on any business fibre or wireless connection until the end of July. The wireless and fibre products are reliable, uncapped, unshaped, and fast, and Nashua’s connectivity solutions are the next step to future-proofing your business. For more information, visit the Nashua website. This article was published in partnership with Nashua.