SITA has launched its #NDP2030 hackathon challenge, open to all sectors and all South Africans. The #NDP2030 Hackathon calls on participants to create innovative and practical solutions that aim to solve the socio-economic challenges that South Africa faces, as defined by the National Development Plan. “This is an important and transformational event because, as the industry, we need to change what we want to get out of technology, and we need to look at the impact we are having on society,” said Dr Setumo Mohapi, SITA CEO, who spoke at the launch. “Innovation is not the sole responsibility of government or even big companies. It is coming out of garages and out of the minds of young people – that is what is driving growth in society. This hackathon is giving young innovators the time and the toolboxes to make these ideas a reality.” The hackathon aims to solve problems and create solutions specific to South Africa’s challenges, with the aim to help society move forward. “We are looking to create a culture that harnesses and grows innovation talent,” said Mohapi. “The hackathon will unearth energetic innovation that is socially conscious and adds value – innovation that changes industry and business models and the way people look at government.” “Very few South Africans realise that they can participate in the plan – every South African can be part of the country’s development,” said Tessa Dooms, Youth Lab MD, who also spoke at the event. “Hackathons are not just about technology – they are about learning and finding solutions,” said Dooms. “These young people are key citizens that provide us with ideas, solutions, and ways forward. We are a better South Africa because of them.” The hackathon aims to turn ideas into viable technology solutions to speed up service delivery and work mindfully towards achieving the goals outlined in the government’s National Development Plan 2030 (NDP 2030) for eliminating poverty and reducing inequality. “We need a complete overhaul of our regulations as new technologies come about, such as blockchain,” said Honourable Deputy Minister Stella Ndabeni-Abrahams. “Because we are a democratic government, however, we need to make sure that we bring everyone onboard. Solutions need to convince the majority.” The hackathon provides an opportunity for youngsters with good ideas to present their solutions in a democratic way, added Ndabeni-Abrahams. “Inclusion is crucial to innovation, which is why we are rolling out broadband infrastructure,” said Ndabeni-Abrahams. “It is also crucial for us to build the fourth industrial revolution army, and over a million young people will be trained in software, coding, robotics, and IoT. SITA’s hackathon is essential to this.” The hackathon includes over a thousand participants across the country, who will build software solutions, mobile applications, data-centric systems, IoT devices, and more. Participants don’t require programming, data science, or IoT experience as they form small teams with a mixed set of skills. Mentorship will be provided by SITA as well as other industry partners. “The hackathon will create an environment ripe for the development of concepts that have the opportunity to be realised in the real world and that have the potential to create real change in South Africa,” said Mohape. “This is an opportunity for private and state-owned companies, students, SMMEs, government, NPOs, and citizens to join hands for a common purpose – to improve the lives of all South African citizens.” Applications for the hackathon are free, and potential candidates have until 31 July 2018 to enter. For more information, visit the #NDP2030 Hackathon website.  This article was published in partnership with SITA.