Parcel deliveries are often the biggest frustration of online purchases for both sender and receiver. According to smart logistics company Pargo, 75% of South Africans have limited access to goods and services because of where they live or work. These areas include informal settlements, small town and rural areas, which often lack residential addresses and are challenging and expensive for couriers to reach. Other examples of areas with restricted access are high-security estates, corporate offices, and universities, making courier deliveries almost impossible and online shopping unattractive. The same is true for people with busy lifestyles with no one at home to send or receive parcels on their behalf, which leads to missed deliveries and disappointed customers. Pargo helps solve the delivery challenges by creating access through an extensive network of designated Pargo Pick-up Points located at convenient retail stores across South Africa. The company enables and promotes ecommerce trading by creating nationwide access through a network of Pargo points, which connect retailers and consumers. Online retailers use the network to allow their consumers to buy online and collect their parcels at their preferred Pargo Pick-up Point. Using the Pargo platform, partners can enjoy an affordable solution which provides their customers the flexibility and convenience to choose when and where they want to collect their parcels at accessible locations. With 1,500 established retail pick-up points nationwide, including Clicks Stores, Freshstop at Caltex, Spar, and Lewis, Pargo allows customers to overcome the logistics hurdle in South Africa. Pargo allows ecommerce companies to offer their customers a seamless online shopping experience that includes great delivery. Companies benefit from: Pargo is offering businesses which sign up with them in June a 50% discount off their total first bill. Terms and conditions apply. See website for details. By signing up, partners can increase access and provide their customers with a safe and convenient way to collect their parcels at a Pargo Pick-up Point close to their home or office. Ecommerce partners already on board with Pargo include Spree, TFG, Cape Union Mart, African Bank, OneDayOnly, Raru, Poetry, Old Khaki, and Sport Scene. Visit the Pargo website to sign up and become a Pargo partner today. This article was published in partnership with Pargo.