Rain has launched its Rain Mobile data packages in South Africa. The launch comes after Rain said it ended its Beta testing of the mobile network on 4 June 2018. Rain said it is offering data packages with no contracts or regular monthly fees, and data that never expires. “Today, Rain launches a new-generation 4G network that will redefine how South Africans use mobile data. It is the only mobile network that focusses solely on data offerings, thereby significantly reducing the price for consumers to connect to the Internet,” said Rain. Rain added that it offers consumers one plan – mobile data priced at R50 per GB. “Customers will only pay for data they have used at the end of a month. There are no contracts lock-ins, no bundles, and no regular monthly fees.” “At any time, a Rain customer will be able to set and manage their SIM’s spend limit, ensuring that they never experience bill shock,” it added. It also promises 19 hours of unlimited off-peak data per day for R250 per month. “Data-hungry consumers will also have the option to add unlimited off-peak data for R250 per month to their Rain plan.” Unlimited data usage is valid for 19 hours a day, except at peak times – 18:00 to 23:00. During these peak hours, consumers will pay the standard 5c per MB. The company stated that customers can join online at rain.co.za, and a Rain SIM will be delivered to their door. Customers can order up to three SIMs, and give each a unique name. “You will be able to experience unlimited data usage on Rain’s high-speed 4G network for free, for 15 days after joining. These free unlimited data days will be a risk-free way for consumers to experience the network and test their individual coverage needs,” said Rain. “Customers can enjoy additional free unlimited data days when they purchase any of Rain’s listed devices.” This includes dual-SIM smartphones and MiFi routers. It added that its offering is data-only, and does not support voice services. Rain said that as a data-only provider, it does not currently offer number portability. A Rain SIM works with any LTE device, and users can expect speeds “equivalent to that of 4G mobile networks”. The Rain APN settings are – Profile Name: rain, APN: rain, it added. Rain’s launch deals are shown below. Rain stated that once a user has reached the end of their free unlimited data days, they’ll continue with their plan at 5c per MB – R50 per gig. The deals include: 