Exponential data growth and the need for instant data access poses a significant challenge in a competitive business environment, which makes it imperative to maximise data budgets. According to Yossi Avni, Mellanox Technologies, VP, EMEA Sales, 90% of the world’s data was created in the last two years. This data needs to be stored, managed, and retrieved, and the faster the data can be approached, the better it can be delivered. The real value of data can only be derived when it’s used. However, with complex network routes heavy-laden with traffic, data delivery is often delayed driving up costs and seriously impacting business operations. Upgrading computing power and increasing storage capacity alone is not enough, but by maximising data budgets, organisations can choose the right network design to create data access. The right network design not only creates data access, but can also free up budget for more computing storage, which in turn optimises business network performance. Mellanox Technologies together with Networks Unlimited offers end-to-end Ethernet and InfiniBand intelligent interconnect solutions and services for servers, storage, and hyper-converged infrastructure, which promise maximised network performance and scalability. These solutions increase data centre efficiency by providing high-throughput and low-latency, which delivers data faster to applications and unlocks system performance capability. Mellanox high-performance interconnect solutions encompass network and multicore processors, network adapters, switches, cables, software, and silicon. These accelerate application runtime and maximise business results for a wide range of markets, including high-performance computing, enterprise data centres, Web 2.0, cloud, storage, network security, and telecom, and financial services. Mellanox offers the entire range of cables and transceivers, providing customers with a variety of choice. Mellanox’s family of InfiniBand switches deliver the highest performance and port-density with complete fabric management solutions to enable compute clusters and converged data centres to operate at any scale, while reducing operational costs and infrastructure complexity. Mellanox switches includes a broad portfolio of Edge and Director switches supporting 40, 56, 100, and 200Gb/s port speeds and ranging from 8 ports to 800 ports. These switches allow IT managers to build the most cost-effective and scalable switch fabrics ranging from small clusters up to tens-of-thousands of nodes, and can carry converged traffic with the combination of assured bandwidth and granular quality of service ensuring the highest productivity. After introducing InfiniBand to the HPC market and seeing seven years of success, Mellanox decided to grow the company by adding Ethernet solutions, and today manufactures its own silicon in a comprehensive, end-to-end Ethernet product portfolio with its own silicon that is smart enough to move seamlessly between InfiniBand and Ethernet. “At Mellanox, we own everything we do, and we spend a lot of money to do things in-house as opposed to allowing sub-contractors to do it – even if it costs us a lot more – because then we have much more control over quality and our own success,” said Avni. “This is also the cornerstone of our philosophy.” The fact that Mellanox do everything in-house allows them to provide their customers with choice, and plays a key differentiating role for the company. “Our aim is to provide our customers with a choice for every new cluster they want to deploy, and we don’t lock anything we do. Everything we do is standard, nothing is proprietary – unlike some of our competitors that lock customers to transceivers or interconnect, which works only with their own solutions,” said Avni. Mellanox Ethernet switches and interconnect solutions ensure that customer networks have high-throughput for optimal performance. Mellanox has enabled ERG group, a leading diversified natural resources producer, with almost 70,000 people globally at operations across four continents, to deploy a strong ethernet solution with one of their on-premise projects. The company decided to test Mellanox Ethernet switches, and after having the devices installed and testing them for a while, were highly impressed and satisfied leading ERG to purchase 5 more switches. “We found that the Mellanox Ethernet Switches are power efficient, compactly designed, and well-priced compared to its performance,” said Daryl Smith, Infrastructure manager, ERG Africa. “Since installing Mellanox Switches, we haven’t had a single issue. The Mellanox switches have been rock solid from the start.” According to Smith, the switches are also easy to manage, and once they’ve been configured everything is automated, eradicating any possible issue of interoperability. Mellanox intelligent interconnect solutions overcome performance bottlenecks, provides faster data speeds, and with in-network computing, it enables higher performance and scale. For more information visit the NU Mellanox website. This article was published in partnership with Networks Unlimited.