When you’re a working professional, the resources you have at your disposal can often set you apart from your peers. Consider the work produced using an outdated device, compared to what is possible when working with the latest tech. The end result is noticeably different, not only in the quality of work delivered, but also in the amount of time saved. Gaynor MacArthur, Director of Sales at Apple Premium Reseller, Digicape, concurs that “no matter how talented an artist, their work can be compromised if they use worn brushes.” So, as a working professional or business owner, one needs to ask themselves if the tech employed has an impact on productivity, the creative process, and overall performance. “When you find yourself threatening your tech more often than not, you might need to rethink your device.” MacArthur notes that the launch of the iPad in 2010 saw a significant change in the way of working for many individuals. “Suddenly, it was possible to work remotely using one compact, easy-to-transport device. There was no longer a need to lug around thick notebooks, stacks of paper, or bulky laptop bags.” Fast forward to 2018 where tools like the Apple Pencil – which is not only compatible with the iPad Pro, but also the iPad 9.7” and the new generations of iPad’s to come – the possibilities are constantly expanding. “The stylus pencil is a digital marvel which allows individuals to perform a variation of tasks. Whether you find yourself in the creative industry, spend your days crunching numbers, or molding young minds, there are numerous opportunities to use this device into your day-to-day.” The Apple Pencil allows you to can take notes, draw, sketch, mark up documents, paint and more. And with the lasso tool, you are able to correct mistakes easily. “Functions like the multi-pro feature – which allows a user to drag an app out of the dock and show it alongside another open app; or the Apple Pencil’s ability to support inline drawing in the Mail and Notes app – are just some of the impactful ways the stylus is transforming everyday tasks,” says MacArthur. Consider the life of an Architect for example – he/she usually starts a new project by drawing and redrawing plans onto large sheets of paper. However, with the iPad and Apple Pencil, and an app like Concepts (perfect for any advanced sketching and design work), it gives someone like an architect the opportunity to explore, iterate and share designs wherever he/she is located,” says MacArthur. MacArthur adds, “On the more ‘admin’ side, apps like Notability provides a wide range of note-taking and sketching tools which, with the Apple Pencil, would make day-to-day tasks for an architect seem like child’s play.” “So, if the saying is “The pen is mightier than the sword”, then imagine what you could do with an Apple Pencil,” concludes MacArthur. Digicape also offers financing solutions for businesses looking. For more information on the financing options available, visit this page. Exclusive offer: Digicape is offering its customers a free extended warranty and App Store voucher when they purchase the new iPad 9.7”. Total added value of R549.00 incl. VAT. Offer valid while stocks lasts. Don’t miss out, visit this link. T’s & C’s apply.  This article was published in partnership with Digicape.