Twitter has millions of users in South Africa, and is growing fast in the country. This is according to Barry Collins, the head of global resellers at Twitter. In 2017, World Wide Worx estimated that Twitter had around 8 million users in South Africa, a 4% increase compared to the year before. Collins said he could not confirm or refute the figure, as Twitter does not break down individual country markets. He also said that it isn’t focussing on monthly users, but daily active users. Twitter has just had six consecutive quarters of double-digit growth in daily active users, and they are seeing that growth in Africa as well, he said. While Twitter’s daily active user growth has been tremendous, its monthly active user figures have been more modest. During the first quarter of 2018, Twitter’s monthly users grew 1.8% compared to the previous quarter, to 336 million. Twitter does not report daily active user numbers, but does report the growth, which has been 10% or greater since the fourth quarter of 2016. Facebook reports having 2.2 billion monthly active users. Its daily active users grew 2.4% in the last quarter to 1.4 billion, by comparison. In South Africa, Facebook has 16 million monthly active users, 14 million of which access the site from a mobile device. Instagram reported in September 2017 that its monthly active users has reached 800 million, and that its has 500 million daily active users. It has 3.8 million monthly active users in South Africa. LinkedIn reported that it has over 562 million users around the world. In South Africa, its user base grew nearly 11% to 6.1 million between 2016 and 2017, stated World Wide Worx. Collins said the company has also seen innovative use of the platform from places like radio stations – who use Twitter to drive tune-in to shows – in South Africa. Additionally, the company has built tools like Twitter Lite for more bandwidth-strapped regions, like South Africa and its neighbours, which has enabled people to use the platform more regularly. Twitter has not built a feature or tool aimed at the South African market in particular. “In general, we aim to build one Twitter and give people tools to create and produce their own content,” said Collins. He said that video is where much of their focus and growth is currently. “Over half our ad revenue comes from video, and we continue to see the most innovation around video.”