BCX CEO Ian Russell announced he is leaving the company, according to an internal company email. In the email, seen by MyBroadband, Russell said he decided to resign as CEO and aims to work more broadly within the industry. “Over the past four or so years I have poured my heart and soul into the turnaround journey of the Telkom Group,” said Russell. “I am hugely proud of what we have achieved over the last 12 months, and I have absolutely no doubt that BCX is positioned strongly for the future.” Russell said he has agreed to stay on in his position for a few months to ensure a seamless handover and to work on critical initiatives. “From a very personal perspective, I want to be able to take a bit of time out from the mad day-to-day scramble and also spend some time being able to work more broadly in the development of our industry, especially when it comes to education and opportunities for the young,” said Russell. Telkom Group CEO Sipho Maseko, in a separate email to staff seen by MyBroadband, said saying farewell to Russell was not easy. “He has been instrumental in supporting the Telkom Group to drive efficiencies and ensure that we become more competitive,” said Maseko. “At BCX, over the last 12 months, he has helped to do the same, integrating Telkom Business with Business Connection to create a new vibrant brand. I would like to thank Ian for his contribution.” Maseko said Russell will stay on at the company until the end of August to support the conclusion of certain projects. He added that the new CEO of BCX will be Jonas Bogoshi. “Jonas joined our business in April and has extensive experience in the areas that BCX is looking to grow, including the public sector – which makes up 35% of BCX’s revenue,” said Maseko. “He has also worked for technology giants such as T-Systems, SITA, Cisco, and IBM South Africa, and is former CEO of Gijima.” Following questions sent to Telkom, the company confirmed the resignation of Russell and appointment of Bogoshi. The news of Russell’s resignation comes after MyBroadband reported on the “brain drain” which has taken place at the Telkom Group. Since 2017, Telkom has lost over 50% of its executive committee. This includes COO Brian Armstrong and former BCX CEO Isaac Mophatlane. A Telkom spokesperson explained that the changes to its executive committee were driven by retirements, resignations, and changes to its operating model.