Ingram Micro has launched its Cyber Security Centre of Excellence, which is being expanded across the Middle East, Turkey, and Africa (META) region, and includes an expansive suite of technical, consultancy, managed security services, and training. “Ingram Micro Cyber Security can help take your business to the next level,” said Donald Nieuwoudt, Ingram Micro country manager for South Africa. “We have developed a wide range of cybersecurity services by building key and exclusive relationships with our vendors. As a result, we are able to help maximise our business partners’ revenue potential and grow our vendors in the META region.” The African cybersecurity market is expected to grow to $2.32 billion by 2020, according to Markets and Markets, which is an estimated compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 20.41% from 2015 to 2020, indicating huge profit potential. “Security breaches are growing in number, and they are costly,” said Marc Kassis, Ingram Micro Cyber Security META division director. “To combat this and to help South African businesses, we don’t want to simply push products, but to offer real help, training, and strategies.” Ingram Micro’s cybersecurity team has over 50-years’ experience working in the industry, and can assist businesses in building cost-effective and secure networks. The Cyber Security Speciality Division was designed mainly to support the solutions offered by vendors and to cover all the required security services offered by partners. The available cybersecurity consultancy services, assessments, and training are priced to allow business partners to meet constrained security budgets, and they are designed to be delivered remotely with minimum interaction from business partners to assess vulnerabilities in the end-user’s live environment. Ingram Micro Cyber Security offers businesses a broad cybersecurity portfolio, with a wide selection of strategic, specialised vendors – including GFI Software, Cofense, A10, AlienVault, Nexthink, FireEye, Nuix, and Syncplicity, who offer a range of cybersecurity solutions and revenue-generating opportunities. This allows partners to offer effective, integrated, and scalable solutions to companies, while building a framework that drives managed security services and positions resellers as profitable, trusted security advisors. Ingram Micro’s portfolio offers cutting-edge solutions, including the new on-demand security subscription service offered by GFI Software. GFI Unlimited is a subscription-based service that unlocks access to the entire GFI catalogue of network security and communications solutions – including GFI LanGuard, GFI MailEssentials, GFI Archiver, Kerio Control, Kerio Connect, and much more – without needing to pay for separate licences. “We’ve noticed a growing demand for on-demand solutions,” says Brian Tate, GFI Software distribution director for MEA. “Vendors need to stop selling security software, and start selling subscriptions and on-demand services, such as GFI Unlimited.” Cofense’s human-driven phishing solutions also form part of Ingram Micro’s local portfolio. “Phishing is the primary method of entry in 91% of cyberattacks worldwide,” said Clint Carrick, Cofense regional manager for EMEA South Africa. “We focus on engaging the human, which is the last line of defence after a phish bypasses other technology.” The comprehensive human phishing defence platform conditions employees to recognise and report threats, empowering them to become part of the defence by reporting potentially malicious phishing attacks in real time, which speeds up incident response. Another key vendor is Nexthink, who helps businesses reduce IT incidents using proactive, self-help, and self-healing technologies and ensures endpoint security and compliance through a unique combination of real-time analytics, automation, and employee feedback across all endpoints. “Business experience today is only as good as your IT,” said Mamdouh Al-Gendy, Nexthink senior pre-sales consultant for the META region. “Imagine a world where employees are satisfied with IT, where the number of incident tickets are massively reduced, and transformation projects deploy seamlessly – Nexthink makes this possible.” These solutions have been well received locally, according to Keri-Mae Robbins, Ingram Micro Cyber Security Business Development Manager for South Africa. “We’ve got great, well-respected vendors, and we’re expecting a high uptake of these products in South Africa.” For more information, visit the Ingram Micro website.  This article was published in partnership with Ingram Micro.