BitCo, a National Telecommunications Service Provider renowned for premium business Internet and voice services, has launched their BitCo Secure product offering. The BitCo Secure On-Premises Firewall is a next-generation firewall service which offers robust network protection against web-based threats through unified threat management (UTM) security features. The product combines the best-of-breed technologies, relieving companies of the burden of managing perimeter protection and web security. BitCo provides a holistic solution coupled with quality service level agreements and dedicated experts to manage the system. It is non-invasive to existing infrastructure and only requires an Internet connection to function. The service includes regular security updates, as well as management and around-the-clock monitoring. Amongst other things, the BitCo Secure On-Premises Firewall solution is specifically tailored to suit each organisation’s business model and it is highly adaptable. Michael Colin, BitCo’s Chief Sales Officer says, “With hackers getting smarter and ransomware on the rise, it has become imperative for companies to enhance network security. We have designed our Firewalls to deliver enterprise-grade security in a series of simple and affordable, all-in-one security solutions that provide overall protection against evolving perimeter and web-based threats. Colin adds “The firewall service will not only provide network protection, but it is flexible, allowing adaptability as businesses expand over time. In addition, the reporting module would give our customers the ability to control and report on the internet usage within their orginisation driving productivity. We wanted to offer our clients the convenience of accessing the best technology solutions from one provider by adding this over-the-top service to our portfolio.” The service is available to new and existing BitCo clients at tailored and competitive pricing. For enquiries, please contact sales@bitco.co.za. This article was published in partnership with BitCo.