Since inception in 2014, 10dot Cloud Security has been focused on using local cybersecurity talent to develop class-leading cybersecurity products and services. “We’re gearing up to be Africa’s number 1 cybersecurity vendor by 2020,” states Jared van Ast, founder and managing director of 10dot. “We’re obsessive about developing our own security technology to build our client security strategies – so we control the quality. To do this, we invest heavily in credible people and in R&D,” Jared adds. “We’re obsessed with quality security software design.” When Andrew Klopper joined 10dot back in January 2018, he formalised what had been an ongoing consultative engagement since early 2017. Andrew was at the helm of software design for some impressive blue-chip multinationals, and as such, has a wealth of solid experience and skill in his field. “Bringing Andrew on as our Chief Software Architect has allowed us to leverage his expertise and guidance across our team and into our product stack. Our security software is truly world-class and of an international benchmarking standard,” states Jared. “We are expanding our product range into new territory for cybersecurity. We’ve created an integrated platform called Gatekeeper SOCC and are finalising our Vault cyber security suite. Home-grown, world-class cyber security that we built and can back,” states Donovan Strapp, CTO and co-founder at 10dot. “We are really pushing the boundaries in terms of quality security software design and build. Our security products are bespoke, scalable, and truly South African,” adds Donovan. 10dot was recently recognised as ‘Growth Partner for the Year’ by Fortinet, a market-leading, international cybersecurity vendor. “This fantastic award recognises the relevance, credibility and success of the 10dot brand and the quality of our products. We are excited to be reshaping the local cybersecurity industry. We love barking up trees as the underdog,” states Jared. 10dot Cloud Security is committed to designing and delivering high quality, cybersecurity products and services to the South African and African markets. “We have the right people, great ideas, and a focus on delivery. We are redefining the cybersecurity industry from the ground-up. The sky is the limit when it comes to cloud security,” comments Jared van Ast. For more information, visit the 10dot Cloud Security website. This article was published in partnership with 10dot Cloud Security.