Ingram Micro, the world’s largest wholesale technology distributor and a global leader in IT supply-chain, mobile device lifecycle services, and logistics solutions is looking for local partners in South Africa. Ingram Micro is building a strong local presence, with its South African office based at the Design Quarter Complex in Fourways, Johannesburg and a skilled team that offers personalised service and support to its partners.  Ingram Micro has almost 40 years of industry-leading expertise in delivering best-in-class logistics solutions, strong global alliances, exceptional economies of scale, and a solid focus on reducing costs in the supply chain. The company supports global operations by way of an extensive sales and distribution network throughout North America, Europe, Middle East and Africa, Latin America and Asia Pacific: Ingram Micro began operating in South Africa in 2007 to provide procurement, sales, distribution, technical and repair support, and logistics services. Today, the company has refocussed on new developing market offerings and is fully committed to the South African market, offering several main solution divisions that deliver a portfolio covering: Trade with the rest of Africa has increased significantly over the past few years, with Ingram Micro’s primary focus on sub-Saharan countries. Aligned to this support is a fully-bonded contracted warehouse to support special needs of resellers in these countries. Ingram Micro is the largest value-added distributor in the Middle East, Turkey, and Africa (META) region, with 10 offices across the region, covering more than 70 countries and employing over 850 associates, with 50,000 reseller contacts, and 10,500 reseller companies across the region. “As a regional value-added distributor who has been taking the lead in bringing innovative solutions to the market, our offering ranges from solutions, services and training around best-in-breed global Technology Vendors,” said Dr. Ali Baghdadi, senior Vice President, Ingram Micro META region. Ingram Micro in South Africa is looking to expand and align its vendor offerings to the local market and leverage off the global and regional vendor contracts already in place. Ingram Micro has been at the forefront of the global technology marketplace since its beginnings in 1979 and is passionately committed to its role as an indispensable business partner – a valued bridge between its vendors and customers. For resellers, the company provides unique offerings that create sales and profit opportunities, including valuable vendor relationships, sales programs, access to credit, and training and development. In South Africa, Ingram Micro offers resellers both exceptional customer service and a good rolling stock holding. Partnering with one of the world’s largest corporates has its advantages, such as reliability and great credit terms, but Ingram Micro still offers the personalised service that you’d expect from an SME. No transaction is considered too small, and Ingram Micro prides itself in not treating resellers differently based on the size of their deals. Furthermore, thanks to its well-stocked European warehouse, Ingram Micro can get necessary stock within 10 working days – as opposed to the weeks it would take to order directly from the vendor. Ingram Micro also strategically focuses on many niche products, selecting those that are very high-end, but offer resellers better margins and less competition in the market. With Ingram Micro’s keen understanding of IT marketplace needs, broad customer reach, and a best-in-class operation that sets the standard for the industry, the company offers innovative and complete supply chain solutions that help build businesses. Why not make an appointment to visit the team at their offices to see how they can start a mutually beneficial partnership and grow your business. For more information and to become an exclusive partner, visit the Ingram Micro website. This article was published in partnership with Ingram Micro.