Gaming laptops have historically been quite limited in terms of gaming firepower, but recent advances in notebook design have allowed more powerful components to be crammed into portable devices. Acer’s Predator Helios 300 is a prime example of pairing unbridled gaming performance with portability, offering the latest hardware from both Nvidia and Intel to meet the needs of the most hardcore gamers. The laptop is available in a number of configurations, catering to the needs of each individual gamer. Whether you need a large bank of storage space to store your collection of role-playing titles or a small and fast SSD for your Counter-Strike installation, the Helios 300 has you covered. One of the most impressive features of modern gaming laptops is their support for Intel 8th-generation processors, and not many devices are available with 8th-generation Core processors in South Africa yet. Intel’s 8th-gen (Coffee Lake) mobile chips boast increased performance compared to previous generations of laptop CPUs, and are more comparable in performance to desktop chips. The Acer Predator Helios 300 also boasts an Nvidia GeForce GTX 1060 6GB graphics card, which is able to handle almost any game you can throw at it without breaking a sweat and will push many competitive titles up to 144 frames per second. Acer’s Predator Helios 300 sports an aggressive chassis design with wide, powerful cooling grills and a brushed metal finish which will make your machine the envy of other gamers. Additionally, the upgraded Helios 300 Special Edition sports a white metal finish with gold accents, combining the stylish chassis of the standard device with a premium colour scheme. The Helios 300 Special Edition also includes two of Acer’s ultrathin, 0.1mm all-metal AeroBlade 3D fans, designed with advanced aerodynamics and superior airflow to keep the system cool. These cutting-edge cooling fans can be controlled with Acer’s PredatorSense application, which offers three different operational modes – depending on the user’s noise and power requirements: The upgraded 144Hz refresh rate display of the Helios 300 Special Edition also makes it perfect for competitive gamers or performance enthusiasts who want the smoothest gameplay experience possible. South Africans looking to get their hands on the Acer Predator Helios 300 Special Edition can expect the device to arrive locally on 28 August 2018, and it will be exclusive to Matrix Warehouse. Customers can contact a Matrix Warehouse store or visit the retailer’s website now to reserve their device. There will be limited stock of the Special Edition laptop available in South Africa, and gamers should hurry if they don’t want to miss out on the unique white-and-gold version of the Helios 300. Pricing for the Acer Predator Helios 300 Special Edition is still to be confirmed.      This article was published in partnership with Matrix Warehouse.