MyMobileZA is South Africa’s most credible seller of certified refurbished and pre-owned devices. Giving the South African consumer all the quality of a new smartphone or device at a fraction of the price, with the added assurance of a 12-month warranty. The refurbished and pre-owned devices on offer are mainly Apple devices, while Huawei, Samsung, Nokia and Sony are among other brands available on the company’s online store. Refurbished devices So, you’ve seen refurbished products in our store and you’re amazed at how much money you could save. Aren’t you a smart shopper! Well, it’s just our amazing MyMobileZA deals which you will soon come to expect from us. Still unsure? Curious to know exactly what a refurb device is? Well, we would love to answer this for you. To keep it short and sweet, to ‘refurb’ a device is to repair it to a “like new” state. That goes for everything -no matter how small it may be. All our refurbished devices are meticulously tested up to 4 times by trained technicians to deliver a near-flawless product. In addition to this intensive testing, we also do a final diagnostic test with our state-of-the-art technology to ensure that you get the best possible product. Pre-owned devices Because you are savvy, we’re pretty sure that you’ve heard of the term ‘pre-owned’ before. It’s used in more than just the technology space -we have pre-owned cars, houses, furniture and so the list goes on. Even when you buy a phone from friends and family, you are still buying a pre-owned device. Well we would like you to think of us as your extended family where MyMobileZA is the ‘techie’ of the family. As our extended family, we want you to understand how pre-owned works… Warranty on phones Sometimes our beloved phones/devices don’t work as intended. We happily honor and manage the standard one-year warranty of the manufacturer. So, what this means for you (which is actually the important bit!) if you have any issues with your device, we will arrange the collection of your device and it will be assessed. If it is a valid in-warranty fault, MyMobileZA will arrange for the device to be repaired. Even if it isn’t a valid in-warranty fault, we are still able to help you – yes that’s our fabulous customer service again. Out of warranty repairs Yes, we expect nothing less of ourselves. MyMobileZA does it’s best to ensure we complete the life-cycle loop of your new or old devices. To ensure we get it done 100%, we have our own in-house repair facility where you can walk in, have a coffee and get your phone repaired. We can even provide some friendly banter while you wait. Visit us online For more information or to purchase a device, visit the MyMobileZa online store. This article was published in partnership with MyMobileZA.