HBO’s latest drama – Succession – follows the Roy family, which controls Waystar Royco – one of the biggest media and entertainment conglomerates in the world.  Set in New York, Succession takes a look at the 1% of families in the world that own helicopters and dozens of luxury cars, while revealing the dynamics that come with astronomical wealth and power. Oh, and the complete corruption often associated with it. The series centres on ageing patriarch, and Rupert Murdoch-esque media mogul, Logan Roy (Brian Cox), who is the founder of Waystar Royco. As Logan’s health takes a sudden turn for the worse, his four children, Kendall (Jeremy Strong), Shiv (Sarah Snook), Roman (Kieran Culkin), and Connor (Alan Ruck) are left vying for control over the multibillion-dollar corporation. Logan’s eldest son from his second marriage and a division president at the firm, Kendall Roy, is the heir apparent. But despite a best-laid succession plan, tempers flare over Logan’s intentions, creating much division. Show writer Jesse Armstrong’s inspiration for the series came from books and other TV shows, which portrayed how rich and influential people can get away with things that lower-class people would never dream of. “There were some themes that were interesting to do in comedy and drama, such as old men who are kings, emperors, and business owners who want to live on beyond their years,” said Armstrong. The show is based on some commonalities across media-owning families, and portrays the themes around power, politics, money, and family, but with an underrepresented perspective of the dynamics in families of America’s corporate overlords. “It’s about the relationship with the media, and how a small number of people and families have such a disproportionate effect on the world we live in,” said Armstrong. According to Armstrong, it also portrays the huge wall of money between them and the world, and how they just don’t have to deal with life. Succession brings with it all the glitz and glamour you’d expect from a dynastic family, but as the saying goes – not all that all glitters is gold. And although it’s classified as a drama, viewers will find some dark comedy, creating the perfect balance for intriguing television. Get in on the juicy drama in HBO’s latest tragicomedy series streaming exclusively on Showmax. For more information, or to sign up for a 14-day trial, visit the Showmax website. Watch Succession now>> This article was published in partnership with Showmax.