Telkom CEO Sipho Maseko has warned of “significant job losses” due to ICASA regulations. ICASA is calling for comments on its new draft call termination rates, which were published on 16 August 2018. “The effective date of the regulations, once finalised, will be 1 October 2018,” said ICASA. The draft regulations propose a number of amendments, as detailed below. Following the publication of the proposed regulations, Maseko – in an email to staff seen by MyBroadband – stated that the regulatory measures are a challenge for Telkom. “The call termination rate (CTR) proposal would hit us much harder than our competitors. ICASA is proposing that fixed termination rates (FTRs) should fall by 70% compared with a reduction of only 31% in base mobile termination rates (MTRs), and that MTR asymmetry which supports new entrants should be reduced,” said Maseko. “This decision penalises Telkom much more than it does our competitors, although we are the smallest provider of mobile services in the market.” Maseko added that it is also the largest employer in the industry, and the “champion in reducing the cost to communicate”. “While Telkom employs 18,000 people, the two largest mobile operators together employ 10,000 staff in total.” He went on to state that the proposed FTRs require cost reductions that are “not feasible within a three-year time frame without significant job losses”. “In addition, they create fertile ground for foreign OTT players to go after the local fixed voice market.” “ICASA’s decision to reduce fixed termination rates at a faster rate than the reduction in mobile termination rates when Telkom faces higher costs and supports a large work force in a country with an unemployment rate close to 30% adds additional pressure on the business.” Maseko said Telkom will engage with ICASA on the proposed regulations. Telkom told MyBroadband that one of the issues with the CTRs is the time frame in which they must be implemented. “Telkom’s view is that the current structure of the call termination rates, fixed, mobile, and asymmetry in mobile termination as currently proposed by ICASA within the time frame of three years versus 15 years in other countries in Europe may result in significant job losses,” it said. The company added that its operating structure is very different to other telecoms players, too, as it has specific obligations which must be taken into account. “Telkom maintains a national network with around 1,900 exchanges. Telkom uses the revenue that it generates in denser urban areas – including termination revenue – to support services in rural areas of the country. Decisions on CTR such as this undermine Telkom’s ability to sustain services in rural areas.”