Vodacom fibre subscribers recently complained they were consistently experiencing poor performance on their connections in the evenings. The issues appeared to occur on Vodacom’s residential fibre networks in Gauteng between 18-23 July 2018, and the company said it wasn’t a general problem across its network. “Vodacom can confirm that certain of its Gauteng customers experienced intermittent fibre-based Internet services on 22 July,” it said. “A degraded performance of fibre-based Internet services impacted certain customers residing within Gauteng. Inconsistent fibre-based Internet performance was experienced by some of our customers.” One of the issues clients reported was that speed testing applications would load and report that their connections were performing well. However, streaming and other services were unusable during this time. “This could have been specific to the client at a particular moment in time. Not all clients experienced the same issues,” Vodacom told MyBroadband. Vodacom said that a change it made on its network caused the degradation in performance, and that the impact of the change was not immediately noticeable. “A decision was subsequently taken to roll back the change and this resulted in service restoration,” said Vodacom. Clients also reported that they were unable to receive timely support from Vodacom with their fibre issues. When one client called to check on the reference number they were given, the call centre agent said the service request was with the wrong department and that he can’t do anything about it. According to the agent’s feedback, the query was with Vodacom’s admin department instead of its technical department. “In this instance, the service which the customer received fell short of the high standards which we expect,” said Vodacom. Vodacom said it recently embarked on a strategy to check fibre-based Internet services that perform intermittently before it receives any customer complaints. “As a result, a significant number of intermittent service issues related to fibre have been resolved.” “We will continue this proactive approach in an effort to improve our customer experience in the long term.”