For Genesys, the global leader in omnichannel customer experience and contact centre solutions, everything today revolves around customer service and customer experience (CX). However, according to Genesys, customer experience (CX) is changing because of rapid advances in technology. Consumers expect more, faster, and better, essentially requiring organisations to adapt to their needs at the pace of innovation. Speaking at the Genesys customer experience G-Summit in Johannesburg for 2018, Merein Te Booij, Chief Marketing Officer at Genesys, discussed the need to better serve customers. Surveying 1,700 consumers and 1,300 businesses with roles in customer care, IT, and marketing around the globe, Genesys State of CX report show that 64% of customers favour personalisation over privacy, 30% of consumers are willing to pay for CX, while only 19% of businesses have dedicated CX teams in place. Additionally, it has been proven over many years and in every industry that CX, and the satisfaction that goes with it, strengthens and builds long-term customer relationships, minimises customer churn, and aligns the organisation with the needs of the customer – which impacts performance and, ultimately, the bottom line. Orchestrating an effortless customer experience is a never-ending endeavour. When it comes to delivering a customer experience that builds and sustains loyalty and a strong brand reputation, it takes more than just a vendor with a solution. To get the best customer experience out of their technology investment, organisations need a dedicated partner to work with before, during, and after the deployment. To better cater to organisations needs for improved CX, Genesys has expanded its consumption model and now offers new flexibility for on-premises and cloud customers by offering new subscription and customer success options. By adding subscription to its consumption options for all its offers, Genesys is making it easier and less expensive for both existing and prospective clients to upgrade their customer experience technology solutions. Companies benefit from reduced risk and faster time-to-value, as well as having a migration path to the cloud. Customer experience offers organisations the opportunity to showcase their brand values, as it boils down to customers’ perceptions of your brand. Genesys powers 25 billion of the world’s best customer experiences each year, and thanks their success to their unique ability to connect employee and customer conversations on any channel, every day. “Combining the best of technology and human ingenuity, we build solutions that mirror natural communication and work the way you think. Our industry-leading solutions foster true omnichannel engagement, performing equally well across all channels, on-premise and in the cloud,” said Genesys. To find out more, contact Genesys via email, or call them on +2721 300 3769. This article was published in partnership with Genesys.