Telkom’s system downtime is still affecting the company’s operations – including at its physical stores. Telkom informed subscribers on Friday that a system failure was causing service delivery problems. “We are currently experiencing service issues due to a system failure and are working hard to have the issue resolved as soon as possible,” the company said on Friday morning. The Telkom website has also experienced downtime since Thursday afternoon, with many users expressing frustration with not being able to access the site. When MyBroadband visited a Telkom store in Gauteng today, we found that the system failure was affecting operations at the outlet. We went to the Telkom store and attempted to purchase a prepaid SIM card, but were told by staff they were unable to action any requests – as their system had been offline since Thursday. Staff were also unable to sell smartphone contracts, or assist with customer queries. This is despite Telkom stating on Twitter on Saturday morning that all its services had been restored. Telkom told MyBroadband it has restored a hardware outage in one of its systems which affected its services. “This limited our ability to fully service our customers through our front-office channels and website,” said a Telkom spokesperson. “Although Telkom customers could load airtime and data bundles through their banking or other retail channels, the outage impacted customers’ ability to convert airtime into data bundles using the USSD menu.” Customer were still able to make calls and use their data on Telkom’s network, added Telkom. “Telkom apologises to affected customers who were not able to covert airtime into data during this period. These customers will receive an extra 1GB of data as a goodwill gesture, which will be valid for two days from the period they receive a Telkom message.” “The system has now been restored and all our front-office channels are able to assist and service customers. Our website and USSD commands are also working.”