The Huawei P20 is now available in Twilight, previously available only on the P20 Pro. Since the launch of the Huawei P20 Pro, the Twilight version of the device turned heads as one of the most beautiful designs to be brought to smartphones. The P20 Twilight is available at a RRP of R 12,999 at all retailers. The Twilight gradient offers a unique blend of colours into an exquisitely designed device, lauded as one of the most advanced smartphones to date. The new Huawei P20 is inspired by the luminous waves of light energy that fill our cosmos. Its curved glass body juxtaposes the concepts of strength and light for a truly illuminating smartphone design. Twilight is a testimony to innovation in smartphone craftsmanship, encompassing elegance to an incomparable aesthetic. The purple colour in the Twilight gradient has also consequently been recognised by the Pantone Colour Institute as the Colour of the Year in 2018, described as “provocative and thoughtful”. So chic and trendy is the colour that it inspired a line by renowned fashion designer, Gavin Rajah. The best part about the Twilight gradient? Due to its success and popularity in South Africa, HUAWEI is bringing the Twilight colour to the Huawei P20 smartphone. Featuring the illuminating design, the body of the HUAWEI P20, which is made from toughened curved 3D glass panels, this is where elegance meets durability. Its curvature is precision-crafted so the device melts into the user’s grip and can be used comfortably with one hand. Blazing a trail for smartphone photography, the Huawei P20 introduces the all-new Leica Dual Camera. Life goes by at the speed of light, be sure to capture every bright brilliant moment with the HUAWEI P20, where leading-edge camera technology meets visionary creative design. Precision designed down to the last pixel, the Huawei P20 features the new FullView Display on a 5.8-inch RGBW screen, offering a radiantly bright display while consuming less power. The edgeless fingerprint sensor with smart navigation instead of the virtual bar can offer an additional informative area. HUAWEI’s partnership with Leica made die-hard camera fans fall in love with smartphone photography. Now the Huawei P20’s new generation Leica Dual Camera, crafted to deliver clear, richly detailed expert quality photographs, will inspire users to fall in love all over again. With the support of Master AI the Huawei P20 is able to identify, in real-time, 18 different photography categories. Professional photography skills like lighting and other settings are then automatically adjusted by AI, capturing the best possible images, every time. Powering the AI-driven photography system of the HUAWEI P20 is the Kirin 970 chipset, driving a host of new premium extras and creative tools for a superior smartphone experience. The Huawei P20 also houses a hugely powerful battery that charges safely and swiftly and keeps its power for much longer. With Huawei’s TUV-certified SuperCharge the mighty 3,400 mAh battery can fast-charge at speed for maximum convenience. This article was published in partnership with Huawei.