2017 was a great year for cryptocurrency investors, including those who bought mining rigs. It was even better for those selling the mining hardware, however, as demand for GPU mining rigs and ASICs (Application-Specific Integrated Chips) skyrocketed. As the price of cryptocurrency continued to climb, demand for mining rigs increased dramatically – greatly affecting the global graphics card market. Hardware previously used mostly by gamers had become the favoured tools of cryptocurrency miners, and a shortage of graphics card stock quickly occurred. This gold rush was great news for companies like Bitmart, which sells ready-made cryptocurrency mining rigs to consumers. MyBroadband spoke to Bitmart CEO Jacques Serfontein about the current state of the cryptocurrency mining market compared to its peak in 2017. At the height of the cryptocurrency mining mania, Bitmart was selling a huge number of ASIC miners and GPU mining rigs. The company delivered over 7,000 miners in South Africa in 2017, and locals continue to purchase mining rigs, said Serfontein. Bitmart is mostly selling ASIC miners at the moment due to their better return on investment compared to GPU mining rigs, although this could change depending on cryptocurrency market prices and the adoption of new mining algorithms. The amount of ASIC and GPU miners sold during the cryptocurrency boom is incredible, portraying a large amount of local investment into cryptocurrency mining hardware in 2017. “In May of 2017, we were selling an average of 53 GPU rigs per day, during the week of the Ethereum boom,” said Serfontein. “In December 2017, we sold over 200 ASIC Miners in a single order during the Bitcoin boom.” Of the 7,000 miners Bitmart sold to local consumers in 2017, it can only determine which are active if the user has not changed the default mining configuration, said Serfontein. “From that data we are seeing a moderate drop in active miners over the past six months, especially from accounts with one or two miners on.” “This doesn’t mean they switch off. They might switch to more profitable pools or they may be mining other coins not supported by Antpool.” Users could also have sold their rig to another miner who set them up in their own configuration. Serfontein said that large local mining farms are generally still active and running at 100% – and are even adding more machines While this data is not representative of the total cryptocurrency mining pool in South Africa, it does show a trend towards a more moderate perception around cryptocurrency mining rigs.