When the latest edition of the iconic Raspberry Pi (the new Raspberry Pi 3 Model B+) was launched worldwide on 14 March 2018 South Africans were understandably disappointed. While the rest of the world got to enjoy the new little board, we had to settle for reading the latest blog posts and watching the YouTube reviews with envy. The original Raspberry Pi was first launched back in 2012 with the intention of teaching basic computer science in schools and colleges around the UK, but the user-friendly devices have been largely adopted by enthusiasts and hobbyists worldwide who have used it to build everything from media centres streaming online content, home automation devices, retro arcades for those nostalgic games from yester-year, and even robotics. Today, the Raspberry Pi brand has become synonymous with innovation and learning. Support from brands like Google and Microsoft have helped bring these little boards into our schools and our homes, with over 19 million of these little computers having been sold so far (see: Get yourself the Google AIY Kit from PiShop to bring Artificial Intelligence right into your home) The new Raspberry Pi 3 Model B+ features a faster CPU, faster Ethernet, Power-over-Ethernet support, improved thermal management and Dual-band 802.11ac wireless LAN and Bluetooth 4.2. This new Wi-Fi capability is the main cause for why the board wasn’t available in South Africa in time for the global launch. ICASA certification takes time, with PiShop.co.za reporting a 7 week turn-around for the certification of the Raspberry Pi Zero Wireless, which was launched in February of 2017. When it comes to the supply within South Africa and our neighbouring countries, the cheap little Raspberry Pi has always been a hot topic. While available from most electronics and IT stores, PiShop.co.za is Africa’s only approved reseller of the Raspberry Pi product range, and the only official distributor of the Raspberry Pi Zero, Zero W, and Zero WH. From a little start-up in 2014, PiShop has been serving South Africa Pi for nearly 4 years. The team is dedicated to the Single Board Computer market and loves all things Pi-related, as their slogan says. They have become a truly one-stop online shop for single-board computers and related accessories. The Raspberry Pi 3 Model B+ features a 200MHz increase in peak CPU clock frequency, three-times the wired and wireless network throughput, and higher performance compared to its predecessor. The new product is built around the BCM2837B0, an updated version of the 64-bit Broadcom application processor used in Raspberry Pi 3B. The board also incorporates power integrity optimisations, a heat spreader, and dual-band wireless LAN, and Bluetooth connectivity. The specifications of the Raspberry Pi 3 Model B+ are detailed below. For more information, visit the PiShop website.