Today’s discerning consumers are looking for groundbreaking products and services that offer them compelling experiences. As Huawei Consumer Business Group (CBG) becomes number two smartphone brand globally, we remain committed to our mission of creating not just smart but intelligent devices that add ease and efficiency to the lives of our consumers. Our global success is owed to our persistence in building solid foundation and focusing on innovation that creates value for our customers. As a customer-centric company, our goal is to strive and deliver the best possible user experience. We believe that challenges can be turned into new opportunities when we start thinking from customers’ perspective, see what they want, and then figure out ways to deliver that in smart technology. Most recently, we have been channelizing our efforts towards ‘new retail’ to bring consumers a revolutionary smart device experience- both online as well as in-store. We understand that new trends in shopping place the customer experience as the focal point, and digitalization becomes an important step during this transition for retail enterprises. In line with this customer insight, Huawei is planning to open more experience stores across the Middle East and Africa to ensure our world-class customer service with innovative and ultimate concepts. We are confident our new-retail model will enhance customer experience as well as after-sales services. Huawei is the fastest growing smartphone vendor in South Africa and this is mainly because we have earned consumers’ love and recognition from with our innovative products, achieving extensive sales growth. Constant innovation is only possible when you keep a tab on the pulse of your consumer and the market. We do this by investing heavily in R&D. Huawei CBG is the 6th biggest spender in the world in R&D with more than 12 billion invested in last year, which is 14.9% more than other global smartphone vendors. We are one of the few companies globally that invest a significant amount of its annual sales revenue into R&D efforts, and have established 17 R&D centers, 36 joint innovation centers and 45 training centers around the world. Our approach to R&D has allowed us to become a leader in the introduction of in-device Artificial Intelligence (AI) chipsets in the smartphone industry. In 2017, we launched the world’s first processor with built-in AI chipset – Kirin 970 in HUAWEI Mate 10 Series. We live in a time where AI technology is very much ubiquitous, and AI powered devices are thing of a present, not of the future, promising faster response time, efficient operation and unparalleled visual results. Further, we took this AI experience to the next level by partnering with Leica® for another one of our breakthrough products: the HUAWEI P20 Pro that offers world’s first 40-megapixel Leica® triple camera, which is enhanced with AI scene recognition to capture perfect images in low light scenarios. This device is a testament to the brand’s constant mission to achieve excellence with all its products that offers solutions to its customers that bring ease and innovation into their daily lives. Huawei CBG is proud to have climbed up to the 83rd place from the 129th, making the top global 100 in the Fortune 500 list, which has become an important indicator that renowned companies use to measure their own strengths, size and international competitiveness, highlighting our success that transcends beyond borders, nationality and cultural differences. According to the GFK May 2018 report, Huawei CBG market share in the Middle East and Africa was 21%, an increase of 31.25% when compared with the brand’s market share in December 2017. The company also reported exceptional growth through a rapid increase in smartphone shipments in H1 2018. Huawei is number 79 on the Forbes Most Valuable Brands in the World, representing Chinese innovation, leadership and success globally. Staying on top of industry trends and leveraging Huawei CBG’s years of experience in developing Gaming Processing Units (GPU), we recently announced a new GPU Turbo update that will revamp the ability of Huawei smartphones to process graphics-intensive applications like games. We are aware that gaming is an important feature of every smartphone today m and GPU Turbo will raise the bar for GPU performance, improve image quality and overall power efficiency massively, across Huawei smartphones, beginning with the HUAWEI Mate 10 and P20 Series this August. It’s not every day you find a Smartphone maker listening so closely and crafting innovative devices that are designed to fulfill every user’s wishes to surprise and empower them with incredible features and power-packed performance. But that’s exactly what Huawei CBG has done. Innovation is the necessary fuel that drives everything we do at Huawei and with our standards, products, features and market share growing at exponential rate, we will continue to deliver breakthrough technologies and set new industry standards in innovation, provide consumers with the ultimate intelligent life experience. Huawei Consumer Business Group (CBG) is one of Huawei’s three business groups, providing a range of products including mobile phones, wearables, tablets and laptops. Huawei’s products and services are available in more than 170 countries, and are used by a third of the world’s population, ranking third in the world in mobile phone shipments in 2016. Year on year growth was reflected in Huawei’s rise as a globally recognized premium brand. In 2017, Huawei was named number 49 on BrandZ’s Top 100 Most Valuable Global Brands, number 88 in Forbes World’s Most Valuable Brands and number 40 on the Brand Finance Global 500 Most Valuable Brands lists. In this year’s Fortune 500 HUAWEI climbed up the list to the 83rd place from the 129th of last year with a revenue of $78.51 billion, making the top global 100 for the first time. As a leading technology company, Huawei invests a significant amount of its annual sales revenue to research and development efforts, and has established 16 research centers around the world. Among these facilities is the Huawei Aesthetics Research Center in Paris. Huawei’s newest R&D center is the Max Berek Innovation Lab in Wetzler, Germany, where Huawei and Leica are jointly researching technologies to improve mobile device camera and image quality. This article was published in partnership with Huawei.