Xerox in partnership with Bytes Document Solutions today launched the Iridesse Production Press in South Africa – another first in the world of print. The Iridesse Production Press is a high-speed, six-station colour press that combines four-colour printing with up to two specialty dry inks in one printing pass. According to research conducted for the Smithers Pira report entitled Print in Sub-Saharan Africa 2016-2021, the total value of digital printing in the South African market will be worth more than $3.5 million by 2021 as the market continues to grow and transform. With this in mind, Xerox created the press to produce special effects and digital enhancements cost effectively and in a simplified workflow, so their customers and channel can seize the market opportunity and grow their businesses. According to Xerox, Iridesse can do things no other digital production press can do. It opens new production-level application opportunities, including clear, silver, or gold dry inks in addition to CMYK. This allows print providers to maximise efficiency and operations capabilities – giving them an immediate competitive edge. With Iridesse’s unmatched capabilities – together with workflow automation for integrating metallics and varnishes, as well as run-time quality control technology – print providers can eliminate the use of multiple presses used for print embellishments and streamline processes to increase capacity and profits for customers. It also offers two inline specialty dry ink stations – gold and silver – with which customers can create applications with spot colours, metallic and mixed metallic gradients, and specialty enhancements. Paired with Xerox FreeFlow Core’s pre-built workflows, print providers can automatically and selectively transform text and graphics with these dry metallic inks without editing the source documents. The gold and silver inks can be used on their own or layered under or over CMYK to create unique iridescent palettes, and a layer of clear dry ink can be added for an extra touch of dimension or texture – all in a single pass. Iridesse’s new weight and printing speed capabilities of 400gsm and 120ppm also offers customers unmatched productivity. For more information, visit the Xerox website.  This article was published in partnership with Bytes Document Solutions.