Afristay is an online platform for booking accommodation in South Africa, Botswana, Namibia, and Kenya. The company recently partnered with MyBroadband to provide accommodation during South Africa’s largest-ever mobile network testing project. We travelled 10,000km over three months, covering Limpopo, Mpumalanga, the Cape, North West, Free State, and KwaZulu-Natal. We needed a top-class partner for the project and Afristay delivered. The Afristay website makes it easy to locate and book accommodation – whether you are looking for a place to stay in a specific neighbourhood, or cover a whole province. Step one is to sign up with your full name, email address, and cellphone number. This is to ensure you are notified immediately when there is new information about your booking enquiries. Once you have created a profile, you can upload a picture and make changes to your SMS notification options – setting them to receive messages only between 07:00 and 20:00, or not at all.  The Afristay website lists specials on its home page, along with links to popular travel regions. You may also search by region and view available places on a map. From there you may refine your search by specifying your check-in and check-out dates, the number of guests, and your price range. You can filter the search further by selecting specific accommodation types – self catering, hotels, backpackers, camps – and features you deem essential, such as being pet friendly.  When a venue is marked as “instant confirmation”, its pricing and availability is up to date and you can book without needing further approval. For other places, you simply submit a booking request and get confirmation from the host. You are notified at every step in the process. Upon making your booking request, the following will happen:  You can pay using a credit, debit, or cheque card, or through an electronic fund transfer. Instant booking confirmations are only available if you pay by credit card. Afristay states on its website that it may take up to two business days to secure your booking if you pay by EFT. As soon as the payment reflects on Afristay’s system, it will send you a final reservation confirmation.  As a final sweetener, when you complete your stay Afristay will reward you with a voucher for a discount on your next booking. The value of the voucher is linked to the cost of your booking. This article was published in partnership with Afristay.