Virtual Private Network (VPN) services allow you navigate the Internet without service providers and platforms tracking you. These services deliver something close to anonymity to their users, and are popular among privacy advocates, users in countries where governments restrict certain content, and users who would simply prefer not to have their browsing data linked directly to them. There are many VPN services available, each of which has its own advantages and disadvantages. Most of the top VPN services require a monthly subscription fee, but many have free trials for users to test the service before subscribing. To see which are the best, we collected reviews from around the web to create a list of the top VPNs you can use in 2018. Price – $11.95 pm NordVPN consistently appears at the top of VPN rating lists thanks to its pricing and attractive content offering. The service offers six simultaneous connections, and over 3,500 servers across more than 60 countries. NordVPN’s pricing varies depending on the product required, and the company also accepts payment in Bitcoin. The company is Panama-based, meaning it is relatively free from data monitoring regulations and does not keep logs of its users’ browsing history.  Price – $12.95 pm ExpressVPN is committed to privacy and offers a 30-day money-back guarantee to customers. The service supports PPTP, SSTP, and L2TP/IPSec, catering to advanced users who want to use these protocols. ExpressVPN has servers in 94 countries, does not retain any log data, and can be installed across three devices.  Price – $10.00 pm IPVanish is lauded as easy-to-use and beginner-friendly, while offering a number of powerful features. This US-based VPN service does not log data traffic or user connection details, and offers a seven-day money-back guarantee to customers. Three simultaneous connections are supported and the service accepts Bitcoin as a payment method.  Price – $9.95 pm VyprVPN is a Switzerland-based VPN service with a network of over 700 servers. The service offers good support and reliable uptime as it manages its own servers, and its location means that user data is protected from invasive regulation. VyprVPN’s basic package allows three simultaneous connections, while its premium service allows up to five connections. The platform allows all data types, unlimited bandwidth, and peer-to-peer file sharing.  Price – $6.95 pm Private Internet Access is a US-based VPN service which offers over 3,000 servers worldwide. The platform has no restrictions on data traffic, allowing unlimited usage with peer-to-peer file sharing and up to five simultaneous connections. Private Internet Access is one of the cheaper VPN providers on the market, and offers a seven-day money-back guarantee. 