It has been a busy month for Samsung, with both the local launch of Samsung Pay and the Galaxy Note 9. Samsung’s Galaxy Note 9 is its latest high-end phone, which boasts a number of powerful features. The company also unveiled its new Galaxy Watch, which will be available in South Africa. Samsung previously confirmed the pricing for the base model of its Note 9 in addition to its Bluetooth Galaxy Watch, and the company has now revealed more information regarding the high-end models of these devices. Speaking at the South African launch for Samsung Pay in Johannesburg, Samsung South Africa chief marketing officer Justin Hume spoke to MyBroadband about their latest products. Samsung confirmed that the 128GB model of the Samsung Galaxy Note 9 will be priced at R18,999 in South Africa, while the Galaxy Watch Bluetooth will be priced from R5,499-R6,499. Hume told MyBroadband that the 512GB model of the Galaxy Note 9 will be available in South Africa next month and will be priced at R23,999. “Towards the latter part of September, we will see the first Note 9 512GB devices becoming available,” said Hume. He also confirmed that the LTE version of the Samsung Galaxy Watch would launch in South Africa through mobile operators. “I expect mobile operators will probably be making some announcements shortly regarding the launch of the new LTE-enabled Galaxy Watch in South Africa.” The LTE version of the Galaxy Watch does not require your smartphone to be in Bluetooth range in order to sync your information and display messages. Hume also spoke about the company’s plans to roll out Android 9 to its devices. Google recently unveiled the latest version of its mobile operating system, which features built-in AI features and new interface options. Hume said there is no confirmed launch date for Android 9 on Samsung devices, but the company is working on the new software. “There is a fair amount of interoperability testing required and our global team is working on the rollout for Android 9,” said Hume. Samsung will announce the launch date for Android 9 on existing smartphones as soon as this is completed, he said.