As he stands on the lush green grass of Loftus Versfeld, Warrick Gelant considers what it means to be part of the Vodacom Bulls family. “I was raised by my mother and while I didn’t have any father and son experiences, I’m grateful for the support I’ve always received from my mother. That family bond is what we’re looking for as a team. We know that’s what we need to take this team and this union forward again,” says the Vodacom Bulls and Springbok fullback, who is currently recovering from a shoulder injury. And family will indeed be the focus for this team when the Vodacom Bulls host the Vodacom Red Family Day at Loftus on Saturday 29 September.  Now in its second year, the Vodacom Red Family Day is set to become an annual highlight on the calendar of all Vodacom Bulls fans. To give an idea of what can be expected, view the 2017 Vodacom Red Family Day video below:  The Vodacom Red Family Day forms part of a range of once-in-a-lifetime experiences Vodacom Red is offering its Red clients this season as a thank you for their loyalty. The lucky families who win the chance to be part of this experience will join the players and their families as well as celebrities such as actress Connie Ferguson and Jacaranda FM presenter Elana Afrika-Bredenkamp in a day of family fun and carnival games. The young fans will get exclusive access to their favourite players at an autograph session, and the families will be able to watch the Rugby Championship Test between the Springboks and Australia on the big screen at Loftus. And even for the players, it’s a day that forms part of a bigger message that resonates with many of them as they’ve been part of several unique family experiences arranged by Vodacom Red and under the greater #BullsFamily slogan. “The biggest thing about the Vodacom Bulls is the feeling of family here,” said hooker Edgar Marutlulle. “We need to chase after that and pursue it deeply with every single person that works here.” Prop Pierre Schoeman remembers how he used to idolise Bakkies Botha and knows the power he holds to inspire young Vodacom Bulls fans. “You know, it’s about a kid who believes in a dream and can come here and see that. He sees those players he looks up to. For us as players it’s about ploughing back into their lives.”  And even for a star such as Botha, being a part of the family-themed 2017 Vodacom Red Father and Son Sleepout at Loftus Versfeld with his son had an immense impact on him. “It was amazing to walk around Loftus with my boy. All the games that I played on this field were going through my mind, and the hours of training. It was special to spend that time there with my little boy”. As a Vodacom Red client, or as a Vodacom Bulls player, family comes first. And on Saturday 29 September, the #BullsFamily will celebrate this with lucky Vodacom Red families. To stand a chance to be a part of this once-in-a-lifetime family experience, Vodacom Red clients must register at www.vodacom.co.za/redrewards. Exclusive to Vodacom Red! This article was published in partnership with Vodacom.