The contact centre industry in Africa is both a vibrant and burgeoning sector, and 56% of contact centres are undergoing cloud transformation. This is according to the 2018 Genesys Cloud Transformation Survey: African Small & Medium Sized Contact Centres, which analyses cloud contact centre trends, forecasts, and predictions across five African countries: Botswana, Kenya, Ghana, Namibia, and South Africa. Genesys, a company that creates customer experience and contact centre technology for mid-sized and large businesses, partnered with Knowledge Executive to survey C-Level executives, contact centre directors, and managers from each African country for the report. The survey confirmed that the adoption of cloud computing technology in the African contact centre industry is growing and maturing as many companies across the continent shift from on-premise to hybrid and in-the-cloud models. More than half of African contact centres have adopted cloud computing in the past three years, according to the report, including hosted, virtual, and Contact-Centre-as-a-Service (CCaaS) solutions. The major types of cloud-based technology adopted include customer relationship management (CRM), voice recording, and cloud/VoIP phone systems. A lot of work still needs to be done for further transformation to take place, however, with those that have not moved into the cloud indicating that the major barriers faced include security, risk, and compliance. Budget constraints and organisational silos also present challenges for small and medium-sized contact centres. The Genesys report enables companies to make better-informed decisions with regards to contact centre cloud trends, investment plans, people, technology, and customer engagement requirements in the year ahead. It looks at the most significant barriers to the adoption of cloud computing solutions in Africa, how the demands for enhanced employee experience (EX) and customer experience (CX) are being met with cloud-based engagement technologies, and how cloud-based contact centres are leveraging available technologies to enhance communication capabilities, improve service levels, increase operational efficiency, and deliver a memorable CX. It also considers the new and advanced technologies that African contact centres plan to deploy in the next 12 months to transform their on-premises systems in an effort to become fully optimised, digitised, and humanised customer lifecycle management centres that deliver world-class customer experience. To download the full survey, visit the Genesys website. This article was published in partnership with Genesys.