New York Attorney General Barbara Underwood has announced a felony indictment charging the former CEO of Springleap – Eran Eyal – with fraud. Eyal allegedly stole $600,000 from investors by fraudulently soliciting investors to purchase convertible notes through false representations of his company. “As we allege, this massive securities fraud scheme bilked investors out of hundreds of thousands of dollars,” said Underwood. “Defrauding New Yorkers through false representations and fabrications about a business will not be tolerated by my office.” Springleap was a purported global crowdsourcing company that offered marketing, digital media, and platform design services to clients. According to statements made by the prosecutor, between 2014 and 2015, Eyal allegedly attracted investors to Springleap through a series of false representations. These false representations related to the company’s management team, advisory board, creative professionals, and client base. Springleap allegedly advertised that it had a prestigious management team – including chief technology officers (CTO) with impressive biographies – when, in reality, the company did not have a CTO. While the names of the fabricated CTOs in the investment materials belonged to real individuals, Eyal allegedly inflated their credentials to state that they were previously CTOs at major companies before joining Springleap. This, it is alleged, was done to claim that high-profile executives were part of Springleap’s management team. Similarly, Eyal allegedly misrepresented to the investors the existence of an advisory board, consisting of well-known successful and respected businessmen – though no such board ever met. Eyal allegedly further misled investors by falsely claiming that Springleap had built a community of approximately 180,000 vetted creative professionals with agency-level experience. In reality, Eyal allegedly hired a freelance computer hacker to web-scrape computer data from a legitimate online portfolio website to obtain pedigree information for creative professionals to falsely inflate his existing list. According to the prosecutor, after obtaining this data, Eyal allegedly bragged that the “project” had cost him a total of $25. Eyal also allegedly misrepresented to investors that Springleap had high-profile corporations as clients – including a prestigious computer corporation and a multinational semiconductor design company. In fact, neither company was ever a client of Springleap. Eyal then allegedly fabricated that Springleap was featured as the 7th most innovative company in the world by a prestigious business and technology magazine. The indictment filed pertains to four victim investors who invested a total of over $600,000 in Springleap and never received any of their money back. While the current charges pertain to four investors, the Attorney General’s investigation has identified additional Springleap investors located in Australia, South Africa, and the United Kingdom that invested a total of over $1.3 million in Springleap. If convicted of the top count charged, Eyal faces up to 5-15 years in prison. “The charges are merely accusations and the defendant is presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty in a court of law,” said Underwood. MyBroadband contacted Eyal for comment regarding these charges, but he did not reply by the time of publication.