This past week on MyBroadband was headlined by a new extortion scam hitting South Africa and an investigation revealing that the SA Post Office appears to be unable to deliver letters. For smartphone users, Android 9.0 has launched and Samsung unveiled its latest Note device – the Galaxy Note 9. Rounding out the top articles this week is the latest monthly rankings for the most popular programming languages in the world, and cryptocurrencies losing a lot of value in the market. The top articles for this past week are listed below. A class of extortion scam which is known as the “Belarus Phishing Expedition” has reared its head in South Africa. It attempts to trick people into paying money to prevent embarrassing information about them appearing online. The scam requires a con-artist to trick you into believing that they have compromising information about you, and that they will send it to your friends and family unless you pay them. The South African Post Office (SAPO) has a reputation of slow delivery times and lost packages, which means South Africans avoid using the service unless they have no other choice. To see whether the Post Office’s poor reputation is deserved, MyBroadband tested its letter delivery service. For the test, MyBroadband members sent letters from across South Africa to the Lyttelton Post Office – and we tracked how long these letters took to arrive. The 2018 selloff in cryptocurrencies plumbed new depths on Wednesday after the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission dented enthusiasts’ hopes for a VanEck exchange-traded fund backed by Bitcoin. A broad selloff in coins of all sizes reduced the market value of virtual currencies tracked by Coinmarketcap.com to about $230 billion, the lowest level since November. Digital assets have now lost about $600 billion since crypto-mania peaked in January, more than the market value of all but the four biggest companies in the S&P 500 Index. Google has launched the latest version of Android – Android 9. Android 9 – also called Android Pie – comes with artificial intelligence built in that lets a user’s smartphone learn how it is operated. “From predicting your next task, to prioritising battery power for the apps you use most, Android 9 adapts to your life and the ways you like to use your phone,” said Google. According to the Tiobe Index for August 2018, Java, C, and C++ are the most popular programming languages in the world. Other popular languages include Visual Basic .NET and Python, which is getting closer to overtaking C++ as the third-most popular programming language. Tiobe noted that Python is nearing its all-time highest ranking, and predicted that Python will enter the top 3 due to its widespread use in large embedded systems. Samsung has unveiled its Galaxy Note 9, which boasts more powerful hardware and an improved stylus. The new device features a 6.4-inch display and a 4,000mAh battery, which Samsung said is the largest ever in a Galaxy device. Samsung’s Galaxy Note 9 will be available with either 128GB or 512GB of internal storage, and will support a 512GB microSD card.