Acer Africa is proud to announce that its new Swift 3 will be the first to market with Intel Optane Technology, a truly disruptive memory technology design which has incomparable speed, density and non-volatility for faster processing. Acer has launched the Intel Optane Technology in its Swift 3 device to target users who want the performance of a very high end device at an affordable price. Intel Optane is a unique technology from Intel that uses advanced artificial intelligence to make your computer faster without having to spend a fortune on a computer with a bigger memory chip or larger storage access. It combines a next generational non-volatile memory called 3D XPOINT Memory which eliminates the lag time your internal storage processor takes to administer large data sets. The simple and dense design enables Intel to deliver greater capacity than DRAM, a memory chip that relies on an applied voltage to keep stored data, in the same space. Optane technology is especially useful for the demanding workload environments using low latency levels to boost memory performance, eliminating the performance penalty for each data request, making it suitable for all devices, applications and services. Optane Memory will also play a massive role in the move to Cloud Technology for businesses in the future.  Acer’s Swift 3 model will allow consumers to reduce load times and speed up responsiveness. The Intel Optane chip monitors what programs the user accesses and stores this information on the Optane memory chip. This allows for your device to run multiple programs at the same time but at a faster pace with less lagging. Traditionally, without Optane, users who were looking for better performance from their device would need to increase the memory in their PC. For example: They would need to upgrade from a 4GB D-RAM to 8GB D-RAM or change their storage from a slow Hard Disk Drive (HDD) to a much faster Solid State Drive (SDD). Both upgrade options would come at a huge cost. With Intels’ Optane we can now deliver speed on a notebook at an affordable price. The Acer i5 Optane 4GB D-Ram + 16GB Optane memory + 1TB HDD will be available for the launch period, exclusively through Makro in a Silver aluminum finish, Blue and Rose Pink. This article was published in partnership with Acer.