Nvidia recently launched its new RTX 20 Series graphics cards, which are built on a new graphics architecture and boast improved performance and features. The new line-up is aimed at high-end gamers – priced higher than the previous-generation GTX 10 Series cards. While Nvidia’s powerful GeForce GTX 1080 and GTX 1080 Ti were previously sought after by hardcore gamers, Nvidia said they have been soundly usurped by the vastly-superior performance of the new RTX chips. According to Nvidia, the new graphics cards boast six-times the performance of previous-generation GPUs thanks to a collection of bold architecture changes. The new graphics cards boast more compute cores than the GTX 10 Series GPUs, in addition to more memory bandwidth thanks to improved memory technology. Nvidia’s move to a new GPU architecture included upgrading the video memory configuration from GDDR5 to GDDR6. These improvements come at an increased cost, however, as we have shown below by comparing the basic specifications and pricing of the new cards against their 10 Series counterparts. To minimise the effect of brand price differences on the comparison, we compared similarly-branded graphics cards where possible from the same online hardware retailer, Wootware. It should be noted that while Nvidia has cited dramatic performance improvements across the RTX 20 Series, there are no third-party benchmarks available yet for the new GPUs. The performance boost may therefore only refer to certain graphics processing functions, such as ray tracing. The most powerful feature of the new Turing architecture upon which the GeForce RTX 20 Series is based is the inclusion of physical machine learning cores, which function together with the graphics cores to improve performance. This allows the new graphics cards to perform tasks like real-time ray tracing, artificial intelligence work, and programmable shading. Additionally, the RTX 20 Series chips all support 8K resolutions and Nvidia’s G-Sync technology. The Nvidia GeForce RTX 20 Series Founders Edition cards will be available from 20 September 2018.