As the best rugby players in the Southern Hemisphere did battle during Vodacom Super Rugby, the teams representing South African rugby knew they had an extra incentive to cross the whitewash. They were playing for smiles. Not only were they playing for the smiles on the faces of the fans, they were also playing for the beautiful, life-changing smiles that are made possible by the Smile Foundation. Through the Vodacom Tries for Smiles campaign, the Vodacom Foundation donated R3,000 for every try scored by a South African team in this year’s Vodacom Super Rugby competition to The Smile Foundation. The funds raised through Tries4Smiles helps The Smile Foundation to perform corrective surgery on children born with facial disorders. After an entertaining season of attacking rugby, especially by the Emirates Lions, the try tally numbered 244 and the total raised by the Tries for Smiles campaign was a whopping R732,000.  Throughout the season, the players from the different SA teams experienced first-hand the good work that their tries enable the Smile Foundation to perform. This was done by the teams going along on a number of hospital visits to meet some of the kids who will, and have, benefitted from these life-changing facial surgeries. Suffice to say, that after these visits there was barely a dry eye to be seen. Watch the videos below to see hospital visits by the Vodacom Bulls, the Emirates Lions and the DHL Stormers.     The Smile Foundation is all about changing lives and giving hope and what could be better than enabling some of the Smile Foundation kids to get up close and personal to their rugby heroes. Vodacom made this possible by arranging the kids to be child mascots on Vodacom Super Rugby game days. Dreams came true as the young rugby fans ran out onto the field with the likes of Adriaan Strauss, Warren Whiteley and Siya Kolisi. Watch the child mascot videos below.   The next few weeks will draw the Tries for Smiles campaign to a close. An extremely important part of the Smile Foundation’s work is ensuring that beneficiaries of surgeries are successfully introduced back into their schools and communities with their new smiles. With this in mind, the following weeks will see players accompanying kids who have undergone surgeries to their schools. This aids to build self-confidence and shatter any stigmas associated with the facial surgeries. Classmates and fellow pupils will see these kids treated not like outsiders, but treated like the heroes they are. This article was published in partnership with Vodacom.