Liquid Telecom plans to grow its market share in the business arena, with a strong focus on digital transformation and providing customer-centric products. This is according to Liquid Telecom SA CEO Reshaad Sha, who was speaking to MyBroadband from his Midrand office this week. Sha told MyBroadband they have strong assets in South Africa, which include a national fibre network, satellite services, wireless and LTE networks, and data centres. Being part of the Liquid Telecom group, the company can also offer services over its extensive African fibre network – which stretches from Cape Town to Cairo. The new Liquid Telecom SA’s agility, coupled with these assets, enables it to respond to customer demand faster and offer products which customers want, said Sha. Liquid Telecom’s focus on digital transformation is seen in its strong investment in data centres in South Africa. Sha said they have invested nearly R1 billion in their data centre infrastructure over the past year, and investments in this field are set to continue. He highlighted that their data centres are carrier neutral, and do not carry the Liquid Telecom brand. In fact, the company’s data centres are known as “South Africa Data Centre Johannesburg”, and “South Africa Data Centre Cape Town”. He said the neutrality of their data centre business allows them to offer services to other carriers and the general market. Liquid Telecom is already a strong Internet of Things (IoT) player in South Africa, and this is an area where Sha sees a lot of potential. The company has a partnership with SqwidNet and is also using mobile operators’ networks for certain IoT offerings. It already has proof-of-concept IoT services with clients and will continue to build on these services, added Sha. He said Liquid Telecom has a partnership approach when it comes to IoT platforms. Sha told MyBroadband that Liquid Telecom is exploring partnerships to make the most of its spectrum and enhance its LTE network and wireless product offerings. Liquid Telecom has spectrum in the 850MHz, 1.8GHz, and 3.5GHz bands, which are suitable for LTE services. To extract the most value from these spectrum assets, the company is in discussions with potential partners – which include mobile operators. Sha said the partnerships will ensure that Liquid Telecom and its partners all benefit from any agreements. Sha said their focus is also firmly on the business market, ranging from SMEs to large enterprises and the government. It already has a strong presence in most of these markets, but is looking to grow its market share in the segments where it operates. He said there are also opportunities to grow their market share through acquisitions and the company is exploring a few opportunities in South Africa. While Sha would not divulge details about potential acquisitions, recent reports indicated that Vox and VAST Networks were two potential targets.