Adapt IT recently published its financial results for the year ended 30 June 2018. The ICT company showed impressive growth, including a 36% increase in turnover and a headline earnings per share increase of 14%. Adapt IT’s EBITDA increased by 39% to R270 million, and the company’s profit increased 45% to R128 million. Speaking to MyBroadband, Adapt IT chief financial officer Nombali Mbambo said the company had seen a large increase in growth from its manufacturing division. “We have seen the most growth from our manufacturing sector and an increase in organic sales generated from telephonic expense management systems and software as a service,” said Mbambo. Mbambo added that Adapt IT’s strategy is to grow from organic sources and acquisitions. “We are targeting acquisitions within the verticals that we are in currently, and also looking at new sectors that we can diversify into,” said Mbambo. “In terms of future outlook, we expect to see growth from all our sectors and potentially new sectors as well.” Adapt IT CEO Sbu Shabalala added that he is confident about the company’s growth trajectory and the future of the country. “What we have done is we have created a Pan-African presence as a business, and that understanding of what is required within the African market is leading us into sectors that are high-growth sectors,” said Shabalala. He stated that the sectors Adapt IT operates in are showing impressive growth, meaning the company has a lot of potential to continue its upward trajectory. “There is a lot of growth that we expect from our existing sectors, because we’ve chosen them as high-growth sectors,” said Shabalala. “If you look at education, it’s a high growth sector and there is a lot of investment going into education in Africa. We want to consolidate our presence and our ability to service those sectors first, before we look at new growth sectors.” Shabalala has a positive outlook for the future of Adapt IT and does not see its growth slowing any time soon. “If we continue innovating in these sectors that we are in, we can maintain or exceed the growth we are achieving. Of course there are other sectors, but Adapt IT is right in the sweet spot of growth.” South Africa is Adapt IT’s primary market, with the majority of its revenue originating from the country. When asked if he still had confidence in the South African economy, Shabalala said it was similar to other economies in its cyclical patterns and that Adapt IT is uniquely positioned to take advantage of the market’s growth. “We have been in the South African environment for a long time. The South African economy is cyclical like any other economy,” he said. “We have already made huge investments in this economy and we don’t see that changing.” 81% of Adapt IT’s revenue comes from South Africa, but the company has diversified to hedge its risk against any unforeseen market events locally. Shabalala said the market has slowed down slightly, but is set to improve in the future. “I don’t think there is instability in this market, it has just slowed down and it was a process of a few things coming together.” “We believe the South African market will improve and when it does, we are geared to take advantage of that as a business.” “We are still quite confident about where the South African market is and where it is going.”