For photography fans, there really is no better smartphone than the Huawei P20 Pro. The device sports an impressive Leica triple-camera system paired with AI-powered software features which automatically select the best photography options depending on the subject. The P20 Pro’s Leica camera is a defining feature of the smartphone, and it has been ranked as the best mobile camera system in the world according to DxOMark’s rankings. DxOMark has ranked the Huawei P20 Pro’s camera as the best smartphone camera in the world, thanks to its large main sensor and unique layout. The 40MP RGB sensor on the Huawei P20 Pro captures 20% more light than other smartphone cameras, augmented by two additional lenses which aid in producing great image quality. DxOMark noted that the P20 Pro tele-camera’s equivalent focal length of 80mm offers much longer reach than modules in the latest iPhone and Samsung devices, too. Huawei’s P20 also scored extremely well on the DxOMark ranking, placing above Samsung and Apple flagships to take third place. The rankings for the top five smartphone cameras in the world are listed below. The triple-camera system on the Huawei P20 Pro comprises a 40MP RGB sensor, 20MP monochrome sensor, and 8MP telephoto sensor. This array results in pictures of exceptional quality with great low-light performance and exceptional zoom photography. Huawei’s P20 Pro also includes features such as intelligent bokeh simulation, which uses the monochrome sensor to generate realistic bokeh effects. Another feature included in the camera software is intelligent subject recognition powered by the device’s Kirin 970 processor, which uses machine learning to recognise subjects such as portraits, food, and animals, and automatically adjust camera settings. The impressive size of the phone’s 1/1.73-inch primary sensor makes the P20 Pro extremely reliable as a low-light and night photography tool, delivering very low noise and better details than its competitors. Due to this impressive design, the Huawei P20 Pro achieved a record 114 score on the DxOMark single photo rankings, and 98 for mobile video capture. This article was published in partnership with Huawei.