Samsung has unveiled the Galaxy Note 9 smartphone at a special event in New York – calling it the world’s most advanced smartphone. The company said the Galaxy Note 9 was aimed at a new generation of users and creators – and packs enough power, capacity, and battery life to give users what they want, when they want it. Samsung highlighted several features as standout qualities – which included a 6.4-inch display and a 4,000mAh battery. The company stated that the Note 9 packs a true “all-day” battery, which is the largest ever in a Galaxy phone. The device also comes in two storage options: 128GB or 512GB. Both also feature support for a 512GB microSD card, meaning up to 1TB of storage space can be made available. Samsung has paired the large storage and battery capacities with powerful hardware, packing a 10nm processor into the device and an LTE modem which can handle up to 1.2Gbps in network speeds. Other new features include a Water Carbon Cooling system and on-device AI-based performance adjusting algorithm, which all run on top of Android 8.1. Samsung produced a new S Pen for the Note 9, too, which features Bluetooth low-energy connectivity. This lets owners use the pen as a remote control for the device, controlling actions such as taking photos, going through slide shows, playing and pausing videos, and more. The new camera in the Note 9 is a further improvement for the Note range, said Samsung. With intelligent functionality, the Note 9’s camera “takes the work out of getting the perfect picture”. This is thanks to features like Scene Optimiser, Flaw Detection (such as a person closing their eyes), and advanced noise reduction technology. The Note 9 will also be compatible with the Samsung Dex system, added Samsung. Other standard features on the device include fingerprint and facial recognition, IP68 rating, support for Samsung Pay and Samsung Knox, and a USB-C port. The Galaxy Note 9 will be available from 24 August 2018 in four colours – Midnight Black, Lavender Purple, Metallic Copper – with matching S Pen – and Ocean Blue with a yellow S Pen.    <span data-mce-type="bookmark" style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;" class="mce_SELRES_start">﻿</span>