Most businesses rely heavily on Wi-Fi in-order to function, from allowing employees access to the company’s network and the Internet, to offering clients and students Internet access if they are working in the hospitality or education industries. Wi-Fi is convenient, easy to install, highly scalable and a potential revenue stream, but if you want to use it for commercial purposes you will need an Enterprise Wi-Fi solution that will offer you feature-rich options, easy-to-use management software, support, the right network bandwidth, and more, but most of all it needs to be cost-effective. The current Enterprise Wi-Fi business models are all based on the following principle: in order to manage your numerous access points, you will need a controller (usually a hardware device) along with an annual licence, and for each access point that you purchase to manage via this controller you will also need to purchase an annual licence. The suppliers justify these annual costs (that increase year on year) by stating that in exchange clients receive the latest firmware updates and support services for their devices. But, what happens when you fail to update your licences due to the change in your financial situation, the health of the company or when financing on your projects are slow? You will be unable to update to the latest firmware leaving your hardware vulnerable to attacks; should you run into any problems and need assistance you will no longer have access to the supplier’s support system; your access points could all stop working affecting your business’s bottom line. MiRO recognised the need for a truly cost-effective solution that will not hold your units and business hostage, and that is why they partnered with Cambium to bring their cnPilot solution to the market. Cambium’s Enterprise Wi-Fi solution, cnPilot, does away with all those annual and hidden fees, and places control back into your hands. Their solution offers clients a FREE controller, cnMeastro, that allows you to manage all your Cambium access points either via the cloud or locally on a virtual machine, and their access points are licence FREE as well! Cambium clients are notified whenever new firmware is released, ensuring that you always have access to the latest software versions for free. With Cambium you can save up to 40% on your Wi-Fi solution in the first year alone, not to mention the thousands you will be saving in revenue growth because of the fees you will be saving in perpetuity! Cambium’s access points are extremely powerful and can support up to 512 concurrent users and can deliver throughput over distances of up to 100m plus. Their feature rich free cloud-based controller (cnMaestro) also allows you to track your inventory, troubleshoot remotely, preconfigure access points to connect to a certain cloud account, push the latest firmware upgrades to the access points seamlessly, security monitoring features and events management, and delivers key statistics on your Wi-Fi network. cnMaestro’s guest portal allows you to set up parameters through time, speed, and bandwidth, which can be rolled out using a voucher system, social login or SMS authorisation. Cambium’s solutions not only offer client the latest technology, but also empower clients in the form of the astounding resources they can access, free of charge, via Cambium’s user-friendly Partner Portal. This year, MiRO won the award for best cnPilot distributor in Europe, Middle East and Africa, re-enforcing their mission to empower customers to connect communities and businesses. These awards offer further confirmation of the fact that MiRO is the leading Cambium Networks distributer in the region, continually striving to add value in every way possible. Ian Visagie, Product Manager for Cambium Networks at MiRO, further explains: “At MiRO, we have one of the only certified trainers in the region who is able to offer internationally recognised certified training, to certify Cambium users on cnPilot. Not only do we have a sales- and a pre-sales team to help with solutions planning, but Cambium also has a local technical team in this region. From a MiRO point of view: our solutions selling, pre-sales planning, training (both certified and educational events), perfectly managed stock levels, technical assistance, and other value-added services are what set us apart from the rest.” Get award-winning expert assistance and solutions planning advice – contact MiRO today at sales@miro.co.za or visit their website.