Standard Bank-backed online escrow service Shepherd is shutting down, according to a post on its website. The post, shown below, states that “Shepherd is currently in the process of closing down”. “As a result, we will not be processing any new payments or transactions.” Shepherd came to prominence in South Africa in 2015, when it was promoted as a way to facilitate safer transactions. It eliminated the need for face-to-face meetings when users sold or bought goods online, thanks to its partnership with courier companies and its online transaction structure. This meant sellers were guaranteed to receive the money owed to them when selling an item, and the buyer received the product they were promised. “Shepherd simply eliminates the payment risks associated with online shopping, enabling the buyer and seller to focus on completing the transaction,” said Craig Polkinghorne, head of Business and Commercial Banking at Standard Bank in 2015. The service was also punted by Gumtree South Africa for use when buying goods on its platform, as the risk of being scammed was a barrier to many users transacting through online classifieds sites. This included buyers submitting fabricated bank deposit slips or fraudulent cheques to sellers to receive goods. The danger of physical attacks in face-to-face meetings was an additional concern for people, which was removed by the service. In 2017, Gumtree stated that it had added a “Buy Now with Shepherd” button in the electronics section of its site to make purchases easier for customers. “This effectively allows you to pay for an item and have it delivered safely via Shepherd from the comfort of your desk,” it said at the time. “It has proven to be a very popular alternative for our users, and we’re keen to explore that further.” Shepherd Financial Services South Africa’s Martin Reynolds confirmed that the platform is closing down. “Unfortunately, we couldn’t get critical mass and as a result additional VC funding was not forthcoming either. We just got to a point where we couldn’t afford to carry on any longer,” said Reynolds. Standard Bank was asked for comment on the closure of Shepherd. The company stated it was working on a response, but had not replied to questions by the time of publication.