Rain recently announced it will suspend the sale of its fixed-LTE products due to capacity constraints on its network. The company said the popularity of its mobile products and its strong fixed-LTE sales have put strain on the network. Rain CEO Willem Roos told MyBroadband they are “rapidly utilising the currently-available capacity” on the network. Roos said Rain’s mobile product remains unaffected by the network constraints and that robust demand continues for the company’s R50-per-GB data plan. While some Rain users are complaining about poor speeds and heavy shaping on the network, especially between 18:00 and 23:00, others are happy with the performance they receive. To see what Rain’s network performance is like across the country, MyBroadband Insights performed over 25,000 speed tests in South Africa following the launch of Rain mobile products. The research revealed that the performance of the network was highly dependent on the location and the time it was tested. Many speed tests in Gauteng, Durban, and Cape Town had results of over 100Mbps, peaking at 196Mbps on a Sunday morning at Broadacres in Gauteng. On the flip side, there were many results below 1Mbps in various areas around the country, including Gauteng, Cape Town, Durban, Port Elizabeth, and East London. It should be noted that many of the tests were performed in areas where Rain does not claim to have coverage. The average download speed on Rain’s network over the last two months was 22.9Mbps, with an average upload speed of 8.8Mbps. While Rain’s network performance is not as good as Vodacom and MTN’s, it compares favourably against its main competitors – Telkom and Cell C. The table below shows how Rain’s network performance compares against the two smaller operators in the country. The results are based on over 217,000 mobile speed tests which were conducted across South Africa using high-end LTE smartphones, including Samsung Galaxy S8 and S9 devices. *The Network Quality Score takes download speed, upload speed, and latency into account, and shows how the network performed in relation to other networks.