Huawei Joburg Day is back and is bringing South Africa’s most sought-after artists to 20,000 die-hard fans, all on one stage. Taking place this Saturday, 1 September 2018 at Crocodile Creek, Lanseria, the legendary music festival promises party-anthem after party-anthem from South Africa’s biggest hitmakers, award-winners, and chart dominators. Artists lined up include the likes of Jeremy Loops, DJ Maphoriza, The Parlotones, Good Luck, Mafikizolo, Gangs of Ballet, and many more. Huawei also recently launched the Huawei P20 and P20 Pro in South Africa – which is now available in Twilight (a gradient from purple to green), and is the perfect device to capture epic moments at Huawei Joburg Day. Blazing a trail for smartphone photography, the Huawei P20 introduces the all-new Leica Dual Camera, allowing users to capture every brilliant moment at the speed of light. The Huawei P20’s new-generation Leica Dual Camera is crafted to deliver clear, richly-detailed, expert-quality photographs with the support of Master AI to identify 18 different photography categories – all in real time. Powering the AI-driven photography system of the Huawei P20 is the Kirin 970 chipset, driving a host of new premium extras and creative tools for a superior smartphone experience. The Huawei P20 also features the new FullView Display on a 5.8-inch RGBW screen, which consumes less power, and houses a powerful 3,400mAh battery that charges safely and swiftly and keeps its power for much longer. The Huawei P20 is now available in a Twilight gradient – inspired by the luminous waves of light energy and taking cues from Ultra Violet, the Pantone colour institutes colour of the year in 2018– in a curved glass body, juxtaposing strength and light for a truly illuminating smartphone design. The Twilight version of the device turns heads as one of the most beautiful designs to be brought to smartphones in recent years, and is available for R12,999 at all retailers. So, bring your picnic baskets, chairs, food, and Huawei smartphone, and celebrate Spring Day at Huawei Joburg Day 2018. Tickets are available on TicketPro.co.za. This article was published in partnership with Huawei.