DStv is offering its ex-clients a big discount on its DStv Premium package in an attempt to lure them back. The company’s email message to former clients read: “Shhh! Don’t tell anyone – we have a special offer for you! DStv Premium for only R699* per month!”. “Not only do you save big – we’ve also got the hottest line-up of local and international award winning series, and only the best sporting action.” “Plus, you’ll find tons of exclusive binge-worthy series on Showmax – all yours – because Showmax is free with DStv Premium!” The special DStv Premium price of R699 per month – a significant discount on the usual R809 per month – is, however, only valid from 1 August 2018 to 31 October 2018. This price only includes the subscription, and excludes the R85 Access Fee which is needed to use PVR functionality and XtraView. A former DStv Premium subscriber told MyBroadband that he also received two SMSs per day, and an email every few days, from the company trying to convince him to return. The SMS had a similar message to the email: In case you missed it, we’ve got a special offer – come back to DStv Premium & pay only R699pm until end October! Get the power of great entertainment & binge your heart out on series with Showmax (FREE with DStv Premium). Interested? SMS ‘save’ to 34216 & we’ll call you back. T&Cs apply. Reply STOP to opt out. The promotion comes after Naspers’ latest annual results revealed MultiChoice continued to bleed DStv Premium subscribers. The company saw a decline of 41,000 DStv Premium subscribers – from 1.962 million to 1.921 million – for the financial year ended 31 March 2018. The results echoed statements MultiChoice South Africa CEO Calvo Mawela made in May 2018, when he said Netflix was eating into their market share. Mawela said DStv’s subscriber base was growing overall, but the growth was coming from less-profitable, lower-end packages. This resulted in a decline in the average revenue per user from R353 per month to R344 per month. To respond to the changing market, MultiChoice said it is developing a standalone DStv streaming service. 