Disruption is everywhere, irrespective of the industry customers are in and we see the world changing tremendously because of it. According to South African-born Global CEO of IFS, Darren Roos, this is paired with a multitude of challenges and opportunities. “Regardless of your brand, company size, or what industry you are in – in the digital world there is always the potential for threats,” said Roos. However, a threat only becomes a real problem when organisations are complacent, and when the pace of change outside the organisation is greater than the pace of change within it. There is also an opportunity, though, because regardless of where you run your business and how much capital you have, you’re still competing for the same customers – and the opportunity is there for anyone. In a global context of markets that are contracting, margins that are shrinking, and customers who are more demanding, thinking about change – and looking for smarter, more agile solutions – should be top of mind for business leaders with a growing business. “Regardless of the industry, everyone needs underlined technology backhauls which offer them a platform from where the business can grow,” said Roos. With such robust systems, organisations can get credible and consistent data from which the company can draw insight, and then act on it – which is critical from a systems perspective. According to Roos, IFS marries the need for smarter, more agile systems that are faster to deploy. IFS develops and delivers enterprise software for customers around the world who manufacture and distribute goods, maintain assets, and manage service-focused operations, and is credited on Gartner Peer Insights. “Looking at Gartner Peer Insights, it’s clear that our customers rank us higher from a visibility and success perspective than our competition. So, we are a phenomenal, viable alternative in this space,” said Roos. “We are incredibly focused on vertical solutions for aviation and defence, on field service management, and on ERP for product-intensive industries, and what sets us apart from our competition is the fact that, although we’re much smaller, we are way more focused,” said Roos. “ We identify and then develop what customers want in the industries that we serve, and build great technology for those customers specifically.” With IFS’s industry expertise, together with their commitment to customers, it can help customers connect systems, businesses, people, and ideas so they can be more efficient, create opportunities, and always be prepared for what’s next. For more information, visit the IFS website. This article was published in partnership with IFS.