MTN has unveiled its new fibre-to-the-home products in South Africa, which are set to launch on 3 September 2018. The Supersonic brand – a rebrand of Smart Village – is independently managed and 100% owned by MTN . Speaking to MyBroadband at a media event in Johannesburg, Supersonic managing director Calvin Collett said the new service aims to provide an easy-to-use and stable fibre solution for customers. “Complaints of too much complexity, network instability, and poor after-sales services continue to plague the fibre industry and we aim to change that,” said Collett. The fibre project aims to focus on customers this year, and next year make a wholesale fibre offering available to businesses. Collett added that the company would provide LTE services to customers in areas where fibre had not yet become active. “We are focusing on the main metros first, but will be expanding this further and where we can’t deliver a service, we will also assist in providing access to MTN’s fixed LTE service,” he said. Supersonic’s uncapped fibre packages also offer a range of add-ons, depending on which package is selected – including free fibre installation, a free router, and an on-site Wi-Fi coverage assessment and set-up. Packages from 10Mbps and up will also receive a free smart Wi-Fi device, which is listed as a Plume Wi-Fi system. Collett told MyBroadband that Supersonic will only offer uncapped packages with uncontested, unshaped, and unthrottled lines. “While we do have a fair usage policy listed in our terms and conditions, this does not specify a specific usage limit and will apply only to those who greatly exceed standard usage.” He added that this policy would generally come into effect when a customer used around 10TB of data in a month, and should have no effect on regular users. “In our view, fibre should not have any limitation in terms of capacity so our solution is uncapped with no shaping,” said Collett. “We believe our solution will ensure more people can benefit and we plan to become the number one ISP in the country in five years.” Collett said that while Supersonic will initially launch on the MTN, Openserve, and Vumatel fibre networks, it has signed partnerships with nine fibre infrastructure providers. “We initially decided to launch with Vumatel, Openserve, and Supersonic, and within the next month we will launch on the rest of the networks.” The additional fibre networks include Octotel, Metro Fibre Networks, and Frogfoot – in addition to other major fibre companies. 