MyBroadband received multiple reports of Telkom mobile network problems this past weekend, with many users hit by service outages. Reports started on 17 August 2018, with Telkom mobile customers stating they were experiencing problems with placing calls and connecting to various network services. This resulted in customers being unable to purchases bundles over the weekend. Telkom’s *180# and *123# USSD menus also experienced problems, with the *180# menu unavailable for most of Sunday and the *123# menu displaying strange items. The *123# service displayed a number of unfamiliar bundle options at certain times, which the Telkom call centre said was due to technical issues with the operator’s systems. Users also reported that all Telkom services were down on 17 August, although this may not have applied to all customers. Upon reaching the Telkom call centre, one user was reportedly told by an agent that the network’s systems were down and there was nothing they could do to assist. On 19 August, customers also reported that they were unable to make calls to any Telkom service number from their mobile devices. Numbers which were unavailable to Telkom customers reportedly included 180, 10213, 081 180, and the 112 emergency number. These network issues were noted by a number of customers, with Telkom stating on Twitter is was hit by technical difficulties and service outages. Hi Vho_Bele Our sincere apologies for the delayed response and inconvenience ,kindly note we experienced a technical incident that affected some of of our service functions. Our support team are attending to the matter , please note instability may be… https://t.co/7MqpODjDgo — Telkom (@TelkomZA) August 19, 2018  MyBroadband contacted Telkom for feedback regarding the cause of the technical problems, and the company stated that “maintenance” was the reason. “Telkom was undertaking scheduled planned maintenance this past weekend,” it said. “As a result of the planned maintenance, the processing of new product sales and some in-store activity may have been impacted.” The mobile operator apologised to customers for any inconvenience caused due to the scheduled maintenance.