The second half of 2018 is set to be a great period for gamers, with a number of high-quality, triple-A titles launching soon. From long-awaited sequels like Red Dead Redemption 2 and Fallout 76, to new instalments such as Battlefield V and Assassin’s Creed Odyssey, there is something for gamers on every platform this year. And with the success of the Switch, Nintendo fans will not be left out either. We have rounded up the biggest and most epic games launching before the end of 2018 – listed below. Players will be able to take on the role of Peter Parker in Insomniac’s upcoming Spider-Man game, exploring an open world and independent story with help of a unique web-slinging movement system.  The latest instalment in the Battlefield franchise is an uncoventional take on the conflict of World War II, featuring several new multiplayer modes and a continuous campaign mode.  The fifth instalment of the popular Super Smash Bros. fighting game franchise boasts a cast of fighters from several Nintendo franchises, including Metroid, The Legend of Zelda, and Mario.  Pokémon: Let’s Go, Pikachu! and Let’s Go, Eevee! are two upcoming role-playing games for the Nintendo Switch, which are remakes of the original Pokémon Yellow. They include gameplay integration with Pokémon Go as well as support for local multiplayer.  Shadow of the Tomb Raider is a sequel to Rise of the Tomb Raider and will feature similar combat and stealth gameplay, as well as a number of new mechanics.  The newest FIFA game will include an improved active touch system, overhauled player control, timed finishing, and dynamic tactics.  Fallout 76 is the first online multiplayer game built by Bethesda, and will allow players to interact with others on dedicated public servers. The game will feature similar mechanics to Fallout 4 and will be set in an open world modelled on West Virginia.  Call of Duty: Black Ops 4 is set to launch in October 2018. Gamers can also sign up for limited beta events to test the game.  Assassin’s Creed Odyssey sees players take on the role of either a female or male character in ancient Greece, with the game focused on the Peloponnesian War.  Forza Horizon 4 is the latest instalment in the Forza Horizon franchise, boasting over 450 licensed cars, a route creator, and a synchronised shared world for players to race in.  Just Cause 4 is a third-person action game set in a fictional South American country, with players taking on the role of the franchise’s main character Rico Rodriguez.  Red Dead Redemption 2 is the long-awaited sequel to the original Red Dead Redemption, released in 2010. The game will center around an outlaw named Arthur Morgan and will include single-player and multiplayer features. 