Fujifilm recently launched the new new instax SQUARE SQ6 camera in South Africa at The Venue in Melrose Arch, Johannesburg. The SQ6, which delivers on-the-spot photo printing, is the most affordable device in the instax SQUARE line-up, joining the popular SQ10 camera and SHARE SP-3 photo printer. The SQ6 is perfect for instant photo taking and printing, as it delivers square format prints within three minutes, in the same 1×1 aspect ratio popular on social media sites. The SQ6 offers a square print format, so users don’t have to waste time deciding on portrait or landscape orientation. The instax SQ6 is as much a fashion statement as it is a camera. Just load it with instax SQUARE film, and take it as a popular gadget choice wherever you go. The SQ6 offers a stylish design reflecting the camera’s square heritage, and is available in three colours – Blush Gold, Graphite Grey, and Pearl White. The SQ6 includes a number of features that make shooting with the SQ6 an easy experience. Automatic Exposure Control allows for high-performance flash, which calculates the surrounding brightness and adjusts shutter speed to capture both the subject and background with clarity – even when shooting in low light conditions such as indoors or at a party. The Selfie mode automatically adjusts brightness and focal length to the ideal setting, while the selfie mirror allows one to check the capture area in a mirror next to the lens. Macro mode allows users to capture beautiful close-up images of subjects as close as 30cm, and Landscape mode can be used to capture impressive scenic photos, while group photos are made easy with the built-in timer and the added tripod socket located at the bottom of the camera. One of the stand-out features in the SQ6 is the Double Exposure mode. With this function, you can press the shutter twice to capture an artistic shot with two images in the same print – a boon for artists and those looking for a brilliant social media post. To further tap the well of creativity, Fujifilm includes three flash filters – orange, purple, and green – to provide interesting colour effects for photos. “Since instax has been introduced, South Africans fell in love with the idea of having actual physical photos printed there and then – not just an image that lies forgotten on a smartphone,” said Deon Brits, Sales Manager for the Photographic Imaging Division of Fujifilm South Africa. Brits believes the cost of the device makes SQUARE printing more affordable. “The 1×1 format of the SQUARE film looks amazing and works extremely well on social media posts. Users will find that the SQ6 delivers prints which will be cherished for a lifetime, from a camera that is stylish and easy to use,” he ends. The Fujifilm instax SQUARE SQ6 camera is available from stores countrywide or online, and retails for a suggested R1,999. Fujifilm instax SQUARE film can be purchased in packs of ten or 20, and is now available in not only white but also black frame borders. For more information, visit www.instaxsa.co.za.      This article was published in partnership with Fujifilm.