If you have noticed a boost in mobile gaming performance on your Huawei P20 or P20 Pro, you aren’t imagining things. Huawei has started rolling out its GPU Turbo technology to smartphones in South Africa, starting with the P20 and P20 Pro. GPU Turbo optimises graphics processing workflow to deliver considerable improvements in gaming performance, including higher average framerates and better battery life. Speaking at a media briefing in Johannesburg, Huawei South Africa confirmed that the technology has already rolled out to local P20 and P20 Pro owners via a software update. “Graphics requirements are increasing rapidly, but it is not always possible for us to increase the capabilities of the hardware,” said Mohamed. This is where GPU Turbo comes in, optimising the graphics rendering process to reduce the workload on the GPU and improve performance. A live test of the new technology conducted at the event displayed the capabilities of the Huawei P20 Pro with GPU Turbo. Previous scores measured by GameBench showed an average framerate of around 53-54 frames-per-second in mobile game Mobile Legends for the P20 Pro without GPU Turbo. Huawei ran a live benchmark for Mobile Legends using GameBench’s software, which reflected an average consistent frame rate of 60fps. The benchmark also showed a dramatic improvement in power efficiency compared to the standard configuration. The update will also be delivered to mid-range devices, such as the P Smart and P20 Lite, greatly boosting their performance, said Huawei. He added that the company was working with developers to increase the pool of titles which support the technology. If you have updated your Huawei P20 or P20 Pro’s software recently, you should have already received the GPU Turbo software. Users will be notified in their EMUI update logs of the new technology being rolled out to their device. The rollout schedule for Huawei devices in South Africa is detailed below: Mohamed said Huawei was looking to deliver the update for devices as far back as the Mate 9 series, and is still considering rollout plans for other smartphones such as the P10 Lite.