Running a business with a vision for growth makes it inevitable that unique and distinct challenges will emerge along the way, especially in the face of organisational transformation. Today, most of the challenges paired with organisational transformation revolve around the integration of digital business practices. Gaining the right data insight, managing the insight gained, security, and considering future deployments are among the top challenges business decision makers face today, according to Oracle NetSuite. While acceleration brings great challenges, it also opens doors to unprecedented opportunities that may shape the future. A fundamental part of optimising opportunities is to support it with enhanced technology in a sustainable solution that will allow SMEs to adapt to changing market demands. One way companies can thrive in the face of organisational transformation is to deploy a cloud computing solution. Cloud computing allows organisations to store and access data remotely and rapidly – over the internet – without the need to invest in dedicated server, storage, or networking equipment. Moreover, the cloud provides a platform on which businesses can run core applications and services that would have previously sat in-house or in a dedicated space in a data centre. The three main reasons why SMEs obtain a competitive advantage through cloud are: Beyond the wide range of services that are available, with software choices for every imaginable business need, the right cloud services can free up business decision makers to focus on more innovative ways to put their data and information systems to use. NetSuite’s ERP system encompasses cloud-based financials, CRM, ecommerce software, and business intelligence functionalities – and provides peace of mind for business decision makers dealing with today’s ever-expanding business challenges, risks, and threats. It is engineered to scale with businesses as they grow and streamline critical business processes. With fully-serviced software running on fully-serviced infrastructure, customers can be confident to take their business public and into new regions of the world – all without outgrowing their cloud computing resources. Additionally, NetSuite allows users to customise without limits and upgrade seamlessly, regardless of what tailor-made changes the organisation requires. With 20 years of experience and over 40,000 customers, NetSuite and its partners understand the specific requirements SMEs have, and the importance of implementing cloud ERP for small organisations correctly the first time. They follow best practice and respond in real time. The proof is in their renewal rate, which is one of the highest in the market. See how local company Bramhope transformed their business using NetSuite in the video below. Learn more on the NetSuite website or email NetSuiteZA@netsuite.com.  This article was published in partnership with NetSuite.