When the internet started, its primary objective was to enable and enhance real-time communication. To bring people, thoughts and ideas together at the speed of light, and foster a community approach to knowledge sharing – The internet drives the world forward. It brings people together. The flip side of this progress includes unfortunate consequences like invasion of privacy, theft, intimidation, porn, espionage, and risk. Nowadays you’ll be hard-pressed to justify having a network of any nature, and for any purpose, without a well thought out security element. 10dot Cloud Security is all about cyber security. “We’re about building security tech that simplifies and secures. Our tech is designed from the ground-up to make security easy to manage and cool to use”, states Andrew Klopper, Chief Software Architect for 10dot Cloud Security. “We have a range of custom built cyber security products for ISP’s, enterprises, and even vendors that’ll change the way security is managed and used in South Africa.” States Jared van Ast, 10dot CEO. “Through our recent partnership with EchoSP, we’ve set ourselves apart from the rest. The market can now actually get what it could traditionally only expect – high quality, secure connectivity services.” Adds Jared. Technology has the ability to simplify and engage business but can get pretty complex. Core to the 10dot mantra is this idea of “Grannify” – Security must be simplified and engaging. Functional and dependable. It must work behind the scenes and ensure that the frontlines can get on with business as usual. In short, even granny should be able to use and understand it. “We make cyber security work for us. We’re making it cool again with our intuitive and enhanced UX design. Stay tuned for the formal release of our new product Gatekeeper Vault. This is a complete cyber security suite – an integrated Firewall, Web Application Firewall, Intrusion Detection and Prevention system, Anti-Virus, and Vulnerability Scanner. This is the next level in cyber security”, concludes Donovan Strapp, 10dot’s CTO. “Welcome to the future of cyber security. We’re excited to #HackProof Africa”, Jared adds. This article was published in partnership with 10dot.