Cell C has released its interim financial results for the period ended 30 June 2018. The country’s “third largest telecommunications service provider” said it is on track to deliver substantial growth through its strategic initiatives. “Following the measures put in place as part of our turnaround strategy, we are seeing both a satisfactory financial performance to date and increased value offering for our customers,” said Cell C CEO Jose Dos Santos. “We have focused our efforts on innovation and improving our network coverage and quality, as well as customer experience”. Cell C has grown its subscriber base to 16.3 million active subscribers, which is up by 600,000 customers compared to H1 2017. Active data subscribers came in at a total of 12.1 million, down 4%. Its MVNO subscriber base is also up, to 1.7 million, added Cell C. Total revenue increased to R7.8 billion, from R7.4 billion the previous year, while service revenue increased 11% – from R6.2 billion to R6.9 billion. EBITDA increased 16% to R2.4 billion, said Cell C. “Data revenue was up 20%, with data traffic up 62% compared to the same period last year. Data revenue now makes up 52% of mobile revenue compared to 46% the previous year, despite the effective price of data per MB decreasing by more than 28% year-on-year,” said Cell C. Voice traffic revenue was down 6% for the period, however. Overall, Cell reported a net loss of R645 million – an improvement of 33% compared to R968 million in the previous year. “Foreign exchange and financial instrument exposure contributed to the net loss,” added Cell C. Dos Santos also touched on network investments in the results, stating that following Cell C signing a roaming agreement with MTN, it can increase capital investment in “areas where we’ve chosen to build coverage and capacity”. “The rollout of this multi-billion-rand long-term roaming agreement has already begun and areas currently benefiting from this deal include Witbank, Middelburg, Secunda, Ermelo, and Standerton.” “The implementation is expected to conclude by November and as a result, 4G access will increase from 33% population coverage to 80%. The company’s 2G and 3G population coverage is at 99% and 96% respectively.” Cell C stated that its fibre-to-the-home offering, C-Fibre, has also seen “considerable growth”. The company stated there has been over 100% base and revenue growth for the period, and new C-Fibre connections increased from 3,733 to 16,425 over the past year. Revenue from C-Fibre was reported as R62 million.