The more diverse your capabilities, the faster you’ll grow. Whether you’re a commercial or in-plant printer, our Xerox Versant family gives you just that. From more productive automation, more consistent ultra-HD resolution, more substrate options to more results. Because all that “more” means you can take on business  you never imagined. Work can work better.  “The Xerox presses are capable of top-quality printing and the Xerox technical staff are always available to assist with any technical queries or to overcome any issues which may arise. This ensures that we always meet our printing deadlines to satisfy our customers. While our capacity requirements are currently adequate, we will definitely look to Xerox as our business grows,” he said.  “The Versant press fits in perfectly with the other  solutions we have in production and ties in with our company philosophy of 100 percent in and 100 percent out, meaning that we ensure products of the highest quality.” said Shaun Schutte, Duotone Perfection. For Schutte, the most important features of the Xerox Versant Press were its ability to produce consistent quality across the full sheet width, as well as from sheet to sheet without banding or colour variance.  “With seven franchised stores and the business growing from  strength to strength, we wanted to take it to another level. The Versant family is a serious upgrade in every way, rivalling the best colour quality we’ve seen from litho printers that cost many  times more, and far more cost effective for print runs up to 2,000 to 3,000 A4 sheets,” said Copy Express founder and owner Christo Nel. “We have gone through a period of unprecedented growth, allowing the business to expand and invest in new  technology,” said Johan Enslin, owner of Four Colour Print. “When we first decided to invest in the latest digital printing technology, we investigated several options. Xerox’s quality met  all our standards  with colour consistency and accuracy  being a priority. Cost was a major  factor in the decision-making process, as was our need to deliver better turnaround times for our customers.”  The Versant family’s unique combination of competition-busting image quality, media latitude and workflow automation is brought to its highest, most powerful potential in the Versant Family range. For more information, visit the Bytes Document Solutions website. This article was published in partnership with Bytes Document Solutions.