Cell C is offering a great deal on the Samsung Galaxy Note9 in it’s Fantastic Friday promotion, which is valid for one day only. On a 24-month Pinnacle 3GB contract, customers will receive the Samsung Galaxy Note9 for only R999 per month, and get 240 free minutes and 240 free SMSs. Customers will also receive 3GB of data per month, letting them take advantage of the Note9’s awesome functionality.  The Samsung Galaxy Note9 boasts PC-like performance with its Qualcomm Snapdragon 845 processor, 4,000mAh battery power, and generous built-in storage options of 128GB and support for a 512GB microSD card. The device’s new S Pen also features Bluetooth Low-Energy (BLE) connectivity, which allowing users to control actions such as taking photos, going through slide shows, writing, drawing, and playing and pausing videos. The Note9’s dual-camera set-up intelligently recognises what you’re looking at, optimising colour settings like contrast, white balance, exposure, and more, thanks to features like Scene Optimiser, Flaw Detection (such as a person closing their eyes), and advanced noise reduction technology. The Note9 also supports Samsung’s new mobile payment system called Samsung Pay, which offers a safer and simpler way to pay anywhere. In addition to getting a magnificent device, customers who purchase the Galaxy Note9 from Cell C on 31 August 2018 will also get a limited launch gift valued at R2,499. The gift includes a tripod stand for S Pen selfies, a Dex HDMI cable for a PC-like experience, a wireless charger for convenient, fast-charging, and R500 towards a Samsung original phone cover. “We are offering the best Note9 deal in the market this Fantastic Friday. In addition to one of the most desired devices available today, the overall contract offers fantastic value in terms of voice, data, and free data to stream on the popular entertainment platform, Black. Together with the gift pack on every Note 9 sold on this deal, you simply can’t miss out!” says Junaid Munshi, Cell C Chief Commercial Officer. To get your hands on this awesome deal, call 084 145, visit your nearest Cell C store, or visit the Cell C website today.