African carriers lag behind those in developed markets by as much as 3 to 5 years in terms of mobile technology maturity, according to various sources. In many African countries, 2G technology has just reached maturity in terms of coverage and capacity. Mobile broadband penetration in South Africa, which is by far the most advanced African market, is 50%; in Nigeria it’s 36%. The latest Ericsson Mobility Report shows that by 2023 the Middle East and Africa will have the least subscriptions for 5G. The report also estimates that by 2023, WCDMA/HSPA (3G) will still be the dominant radio access technology, representing 47% of all subscriptions. The report forecasts regions with a higher share of LTE subscriptions currently, will enable a higher adoption rate of information and communications technology. It predicts that North America, North East Asia, and Western Europe – three regions currently with highest shares of global mobile broadband subscriptions – will lead 5G uptake, with 48%, 34%, and 21% of all mobile subscriptions by 2023 respectively. Additionally, Huawei’s market intelligence shows that in most African countries, LTE (4G) penetration rates are less than 30%. If this is the development model, 5G is not as close for Africa as it is for more mature markets like South Korea, US, UK and Australia. MTN, Africa’s largest mobile network operator, shared similar views on the timing of 5G, saying the first practical uses in Africa will begin only after International Telecoms Union (ITU) regulations are in place starting from 2020 onwards; Telkom said the commercial case for 5G is still a few years away. To successfully and sustainably deploy 5G mobile technology, availability of spectrum and appropriate planning, regulations, and other factors need to be considered. Furthermore, scaled deployment of 5G requires 5G device adoption to keep pace with network expansion, said David Chen, Vice President of Carrier Business Group, Huawei Southern Africa Region. In South Africa, however, only 34% of mobile subscribers are using smartphones. To increase smartphone use and advance mobile broadband development, organisations need to offer or rollout affordable smartphones and couple it with an innovative business model. “This will benefit consumers and carriers who will see an increase in revenue from data services,” Chen adds. However, according to Chen, an increase in the adoption of smartphones alone isn’t enough. “Good network coverage and improved user experience together with affordable data prices are all important factors to create a healthy environment to accelerate the development of 3G/4G based mobile broadband, while waiting for 5G.” said Chen. Chen says LTE is key to build a future-oriented network to embrace the 5G future. The delivery of such a network, business models, and practices in this regard will not only lay a solid foundation for business success in the 5G era, but will contribute in meeting today’s increasing service requirements. In February 2018, Huawei unveiled its end-to-end (E2E) 3GPP-compliant 5G product solutions, ranging from core network, the bearer network, to full-scenario 5G wireless product and terminals, following the announcement by 3GPP of the completion of 5G NR standardisation Phase 1 (NSA NR) in December 2017. Most global operators who have announced their intention to deploy 5G, prefer to start with Non-Standalone (NSA) based 5G architecture where the 5G radio base station is anchored on LTE. “In this mode, 5G still uses LTE core network, “said Chen. NSA-based 5G deployment not only allows operators to smoothly evolve to 5G, but also ensures a good user experience when customers are out of 5G coverage and in Gigabit LTE network coverage. Improving 3G/LTE-based mobile broadband networks, both in terms of coverage and capacity with technologies such as adding spectrum, multi-sectors, MIMO, carrier aggregation and scenario-based site solutions such as Huawei’s TubeStar, Pole Star, and RuralStar, can help customers enjoy a better mobile broadband service experience. For carriers, this results in more data traffic and improved revenue. “5G use cases are attractive, however, there is still no clear business model for operators. So, we think that instead of investing in a 5G network, it’s better for the African market to use LTE as a test bed to develop 5G,” says Chen. For a full understanding of the 5G business model and strengthening the 5G Ecosystem, Gigabit LTE and NB-IoT could support 5G use cases, such as Wireless Broadband WTTx and IoT applications. LTE offers outstanding coverage in a broad range of areas and high terminal penetration rate will emerge as the standard for basic networks in the 5G era, said Huawei. “To drive spectrum migration of mobile operators from 2G and 3G to LTE, LTE-enabled smartphone penetration needs to increase together with providing the best LTE network both in terms of coverage and capacity,” concludes Chen. For more information, visit the Huawei website. This article was published in partnership with Huawei.