Every year, millions of patients in Africa and around the world die because of poor health care, but the World Health Organisation says technology can play a role in saving lives. Director-General of the World Health Organisation, Dr. Tedros Adhanom Gebreyesus was speaking at the second International Conference of Ministers of Health and Ministers for Digital Technical Technology on Health Security in Africa (CIMSA), when he said the use of digital health technology could improve healthcare quality and patient safety in Africa. He pointed out that electronic health records, the use of smartphones and Artificial Intelligence (AI), among other technology, can play a vital role in improving patient safety and empowering patients and families. Not only can smartphones be used to document patient conditions through reminders and direct communication with healthcare professionals across various mobile platforms, but AI is set to advance the future of healthcare. Digital healthcare solutions company, ResApp Health is working on a smartphone app which will be able to assist healthcare professionals with diagnosis using the device’s microphone. According to the company they are working on creating easy to use, affordable, clinically-validated and regulatory-cleared diagnostic tools that only require a smartphone. Meanwhile, emotion analytics company, Beyond Verbal is using AI in the form of human-like virtual assistants decode human vocal intonations into underlying emotions in real-time. While apps may be at the forefront of the advances in AI in healthcare, it is equally as important to have a device that can cater to demands by these AI apps, while remaining at optimum performance. The HUAWEI MATE 10 PRO is the first smartphone to include the AI-dedicated Kirin 970 chipset with Neural Processing Unit, allowing the smartphone to perform strenuous AI tasks without impacting of the performance of the smartphone. The chipset enables the HUAWEI Mate 10 Pro to be smart, quick and adaptive, understanding and responding to real-world situations instantly, while the NPU serves to lessen the burden on the smartphone’s Central Processing Unit (CPU) and without needing to use the device’s Graphics Processing Unit (GPU). The NPU is able to handle all AI health apps required by the user or healthcare professional. Through the power of the NPU, the HUAWEI MATE 10 PRO is able to keep itself running at optimum efficiency, even months after it leaves its original packaging. This is essentially important as the power of AI in smartphones has not truly been unlocked. In months to come more developers will introduce Health AI app that will assist both patients and healthcare professionals. This article was published in partnership with Huawei.