RSAWEB has partnered with Kwesé, the official partners to Roku and Netflix in South Africa. Through this partnership, RSAWEB is able to make streaming easier than ever for customers. With RSAWEB providing super-fast, affordable Fibre Internet and Kwesé providing an easy to use streaming device and platform that takes full advantage of the fibre connectivity. To celebrate this new partnership, RSAWEB has bundled up to R7,000 in savings for new fibre customers, including a free Kwesé Play Roku powered streaming device, with their Super Streaming Sale. These two African tech powerhouses are coming together to usher in the next generation of entertainment with a mix of international and local content. The Kwesé Play service is revolutionising the media industry across the African content by providing a modern alternative to traditional broadcasting that meets the needs of an increasingly connected continent. Closer to home, RSAWEB is getting more South Africans online equipping them with the tools needed to advance in a digital world. With the global trend of streaming media on the rise and people accessing more online content than ever before, bundling Fibre Internet access and online entertainment just makes sense. As an official Roku partner, Kwesé is able to offer over 100 other online channels locally, through the intuitive Roku platform, including YouTube, Netflix and Red Bull TV, making online media more easily accessible to South Africans especially when coupled with RSAWEB’s affordable Internet connectivity. Mark Slingsby, CEO of RSAWEB, had this to say: We continuously hunt for value for our customers and we are excited to be connecting them to a whole host of international entertainment on the Roku platform through Kwesé Play and Netflix. The Roku platform makes it easy for customers to access high-quality content at affordable prices. RSAWEB goes the extra mile to make things as easy as possible for customers; being the only ISP to offer one hour of free onsite support, helping them make sure that their connection is strong but also helping them to set up and connect their smart devices. Bundling the Kwesé Play Roku powered streaming devices makes it very easy for customers to start streaming as soon as their home is connected. Wendy Bailey, Business Unit Manager at RSAWEB, explains: We’ve bundled Kwesé Play Roku powered streaming devices with our router deliveries so customers receive everything they need to start streaming as soon as they’re connected. We have a lot of customers turning to us for help to set up their smart TVs and streaming devices. With Kwesé Play we expect it to be even easier for people to get up and running with streaming. This partnership between RSAWEB and Kwesé will make it that much easier for South Africans to keep up with the rest of the world as the migration into the digital era of entertainment commences, another way RSAWEB is connecting tomorrow. All uncapped Fibre orders for 100 Mbps or faster packages placed with RSAWEB before 2 September 2018 will receive a free Kwesé Play Roku powered streaming device in addition to a whole host of other savings, up to the value of R7,000 as part of the Super Streaming Sale launch deal. These savings include a free premium router, free connection fees, free 1 GB of mobile data monthly and a free hour of onsite support. The deal ends this week, order now to save! This article was published in partnership with RSAWEB.