The demand for software developers in South Africa is continuing to climb, according to local recruitment experts. OfferZen, which specialises in the recruitment and placing of developers, told MyBroadband that 2018 has seen activity on its platform surging. “The number of people applying to OfferZen has increased by 200% since October/November last year, and interview requests being sent per week is at an all-time high,” said OfferZen cofounder Philip Joubert. Joubert said they have seen high demand for developers using the following languages (in Gauteng and the Western Cape): “Looking a bit closer, Johannesburg has a lot more demand for .NET than Cape Town does,” he said. “There’s also currently high demand for UX Designers, Python, and PHP developers in Cape Town.” Paul Byrne, MD at CareerJunction, said their jobs platform has also experienced an increase in demand for software developers. Byrne said at the start of 2018, every fifth vacancy on the platform was allocated to a role in software development. He added that the seniority of developers is appearing to play a major role when it comes to recruitment. “When comparing the number of vacancies across various skill levels, there seems to be a notable preference for senior developers compared to junior and intermediate-level developers,” he said. Senior roles are also significantly higher within software development when compared to other professions. “At the end of 2016, every fourth software developer vacancy was for a senior professional. At the end of 2017, this number increased to every third vacancy. Looking into 2018, we expect this trend to continue.” The most sought-after skill sets on CareerJunction were: “C# skills in particular have again become a very popular skill set in recent months,” said Byrne. The high demand for software developers has also resulted in lucrative remuneration packages for professionals, said Byrne. “CareerJunction’s latest salary review shows that salary offerings for software developers fall under the top 25 highest salaries, based on an analysis of 116 occupational fields.” Intermediate software developers can expect between R33,352 to R43,523 per month (cost to company) on average. Senior software developers can expect an average salary of between R41,726 to R53,253 per month.