The PC market in South Africa is still going strong, according to Lenovo South Africa general manager Thibault Dousson. Dousson told MyBroadband that the desktop PC market is showing impressive stability and is here to stay. In the past few years, reachers found that the global PC market was in a steep decline – due to the increasing adoption of tablets and smartphones. The industry showed a decline in shipments for eight consecutive quarters leading up to the end of 2016. This turned around in the past year, however, with the global PC market stabilising and South Africa looking to follow suit. Acer recently said it also expected the South African PC market to grow this year, thanks to a better economic outlook and consumers looking to replace their older technology. Both desktop and laptop products are in demand in South Africa, added Dousson. He said there is a consistent interest from enterprises in desktop machines, and high-end desktop PCs will always be in demand for intensive tasks. Compact desktop machines are also being purchased for offices, despite the increasing popularity of laptops among professionals. When asked which of Lenovo’s PC products were the most popular in South Africa, Dousson said that entry-level laptops were the best sellers. This is common across many countries, where customers do not have a lot of disposable income, he said. Dousson said Lenovo’s high-end ThinkPad notebooks continue to be popular among high-level professionals, and its Legion gaming lineup is starting to gain adoption in South Africa. “The amount of energy we have put into Legion is paying off. We have gained a lot of traction across our gaming products,” said Dousson. Gaming is a smaller market than mainstream devices, however, and Lenovo’s Yoga convertible laptops still outpace the Legion lineup in popularity. Dousson said Lenovo will continue to launch new devices in South Africa, including gaming laptops and PCs, notebooks, workstations, and smartphones through its Motorola division.