SYSPRO, a consistent leader in ERP Technology Value Matrix for usability and functionality, has revealed its key ICT findings for 2018, detailing what it foresees on the horizon for the years to come. According to Arthur Goldstuck, managing director of World Wide Worx, corporate South Africa has arrived at a high-tech watershed in how it uses technology to gain a competitive edge. The Mobile Corporation in South Africa 2018 research study, conducted by World Wide Worx in partnership with SYSPRO, has revealed that many large South African enterprises are poised to embrace emerging technologies like robotics, IoT, big data, and machine learning. The study shows slow uptake of these technologies until now, but a rapidly-growing readiness to adopt them soon. “The reason is simple,” says Mark Wilson, Managing Director SYSPRO Africa. “Businesses are all seeing their counterparts globally being disrupted by small, nimble newcomers, and they are also seeing large companies that are willing to disrupt themselves. If they don’t respond as part of their own strategic direction, someone will force them to respond. The result will be that these companies will find themselves performing crisis management instead of strategy management.” The study, based on telephonic interviews with IT decision makers at 400 large companies in South Africa, found low current usage, but massive intended usage of cutting-edge technologies. For example, while only 13% of enterprise IT decision-makers said they currently use big data and machine learning, a further 55% said they would adopt these technologies in the near future. One of the main reasons given by companies who have no plans to incorporate robotics or blockchain technology has been the cost to entry. Robotics has only been deployed in 6% of companies, according to the study, although a further 45% said they planned to do so. Blockchain is the only one of the major emerging technologies that is still being avoided by most corporates – only 3% are trying it out, while another 39% of companies plan to use it. In dramatic contrast, almost two thirds of the respondents say they currently use technologies related to IoT. The majority of those not using it, plan to do so (a further 28%), while all those currently using it plan to increase their usage. “The key headline finding of this research is that for several years now we’ve been watching a new information technology revolution sweeping the corporate world – but mostly in developed countries. We’ve been reading the case studies, hearing about small business being swept away, including start-ups and the like, but now we’re finally beginning to see the IT revolution arriving in South Africa,” said Goldstuck. According to Wilson, South Africa now boasts an astonishing 88 million unique mobile subscriptions, which shows how South Africa, the continent, and possibly the world is in love with mobility. In parallel, on the business side there is increased adoption of advanced mobile networks (LTE) and fibre backbones, offering endless possibilities. “We are already changed in the way we do business and are no longer confined to the four walls of how we currently operate,” said Wilson. Those who have embraced the digital transformation of industrial revolution are seeing huge business benefits. Among other things, these benefits include improved productivity, increased customer satisfaction, and business flexibility – helping to differentiate organisations in the market. “However, even though there has been a lot of transformation in organisations with companies trying to adapt new ways of doing business, there is still a lot of legacy organisations using legacy software that is outdated for their business requirements, leaving them at a disadvantage,” Wilson said. “If you’re not being relevant, and not being current, you can risk the opportunity to becoming redundant in the marketplace.” When SYSPRO and World Wide Worx commissioned the report, discovering how to remain relevant in this highly-competitive environment was a key priority. Businesses that aren’t relevant today want to be relevant in the future, and customers are looking for software houses that are able to bring innovation and new ideas to the table. Customers are also looking for organisations that don’t treat their solutions as a standalone or a disposed solution, but offer tailored solutions. “One of the things we were hoping to come out of this survey is how, as an organisation, we can be relevant in the marketplace. Relevance is one aspect, the second is the rate at which the world is currently changing,” said Wilson. As the world becomes increasingly fast-paced, it is clear that organisations need to get into the brains of decision-makers and understand what is driving that decision-making process, he added. The collaboration with World Wide Worx has enabled SYSPRO to aim this research in the marketplace as “a broad brush in captivating many different industries and many different technologies to bring a collective view of where businesses in South Africa are headed right now,” Wilson concluded. For more information, visit the SYSPRO website. This article was published in partnership with SYSPRO.