The war on high prepaid and out-of-bundle data rates seems never ending. Minister of Economic Development Ebrahim Patel recently said bringing data prices down will be a priority for the government in 2018. President Cyril Ramaphosa also weighed in on the issue in his State of the Nation address, saying increased competition and lower communications prices are high on his agenda. Consumers and politicians are also not the only ones speaking out against mobile data prices. MTN CEO Rob Shuter said last year that entry-level and out-of-bundle data prices are high. Vodacom CEO Shameel Joosub said they are focused on addressing high out-of-bundle pricing, and reduced out-of-bundle data prices in October 2017. Despite the verbal onslaught, however, there remains a large gap between contract, prepaid, and out-of-bundle data prices. Vodacom’s prepaid data prices are up to 200% more expensive than comparable contract prices. The situation is worse when comparing in-bundle and out-of-bundle prices, with OOB prices between 580% and 2,600% more expensive. MTN, in turn, charges up to 234% more for prepaid data bundles than for comparable contract products. Out-of-bundle prices are worse, with MTN charging between 850% and 1,928% more for OOB data than for in-bundle data. The tables below provide an overview of the price differences.  Vodacom said it is normal business practice to offer discounts to customers who make longer-term commitments. “This as recurring revenues allow for more accurate forecasting upon which better-informed business decisions can be taken,” said Vodacom. The company added that in-bundle rates are far cheaper, as bundles are a committed purchase that provides it with a greater deal of certainty as to when the service will be used. “This means that we can plan and provision network capacity with a greater degree of accuracy.”  MTN executive Jacqui O’Sullivan said contract data offers include a fixed commitment, while once-off and recurring bundles are consumed when needed. As such, the customer has the ability to remove or add data at any time. “This degree of flexibility comes at a price premium and this is why recurring data bundles are somewhat more expensive,” said O’Sullivan. She said out-of-bundle consumption will always be priced at a premium to entice customers to commit to bundle purchases. “Bundle purchases offer the customer the benefit of attractive rates, while at the same time allowing the mobile operators the opportunity to understand customer demands.” Forecasting allows operators to determine data demands and adequately prepare for them. “We have done significant work to ensure that there is price parity between in and out-of-bundle pricing, which includes the introduction of our Steppa plan with a rate of R0.29,” she said. “Customers also have the option to migrate to our Freedom price plan, which offers an out-of-bundle rate of R0.60 per MB.”