Huawei unveiled its new P20 smartphones – the P20, P20 Lite, and P20 Pro – at a launch event in Paris on 27 March. The devices all sport redesigned displays which are almost bezel-less, except for a fingerprint sensor at the bottom of the device and a notch at the top for the front-facing camera. The P20 and P20 Pro also boast impressive Leica camera systems, with the devices sporting dual and triple-lens cameras respectively. MyBroadband was at the launch event in Paris, and we had the opportunity to get our hands on the Huawei P20 and P20 Pro, try them out, and take some photos.  The Huawei P20 Pro sports an impressive AMOLED display which encompasses almost the entire face of the device – as is the current trend with high-end smartphones. Additionally, it features a triple-lens rear camera system with powerful AI capabilities powered by the neural processor built into Huawei’s Kirin 970 chipset. This means the device can perform a large portion of its AI processing, such as image recognition and text translation, offline. The 6.1-inch, 1,080 x 2,240 display on the Huawei P20 Pro is crisp and delivers high-resolution visuals with an excellent contrast ratio, thanks to the lack of a backlight in its OLED panel. Its sibling the P20 features a high-quality IPS LCD display, also with a notch at the top. The notch can be toggled off in the device’s settings, however, which effectively blacks out the upper areas of the screen on either side of the front camera.  Huawei has always built powerful camera systems into its flagship devices, thanks to its partnership with Leica. The P20 series is no different, with the P20 Pro boasting a triple-lens rear camera with 40MP, 20MP, and 8MP sensors, paired with a 24MP front-facing camera. The P20 includes a dual-lens Leica camera setup which offers 960fps video recording and great still photography. The front camera on the devices drives the smartphone’s snappy and accurate facial recognition system, offering users another way to unlock their device (in addition to the fingerprint sensor). Huawei’s camera app on both devices also uses an AI-driven stabilisation feature, which allows you to take long-exposure shots. It further features object and setting recognition, which automatically adjusts the camera settings depending on what subject you are shooting. This allows users to create impressive photographs with very little knowledge or experience. The quality of the images we shot using the Huawei P20 and P20 Pro was impressive, and the devices can be used across a number of mobile photography applications. Huawei’s Kirin 970 chipset, which powers the smartphones, also makes the P20 a formidable flagship competitor in terms of overall performance – especially when you consider the features offered by the chip’s on-board neural processor.  The Huawei P20 will ship from 4 April 2018 in South Africa, while the P20 Pro is set to be available from 9 April. The new smartphones are available for preorder at the following prices from local online retailers: