Where do you buy an industrial-strength magnet that can destroy a hard drive? A quick Google search pointed us to what turned out to be a treasure trove of cool gadgets and hardware – RS Components. The RS Components online store packs a wide range of products, including electronic components like Arduino add-ons, hydraulic tools, and PCB prototypes. It is a great place for a DIY enthusiasts looking to build their own gadgets, or a professional who needs the latest tools. Some of the coolest stuff you can buy at RS Components is listed below. RS Components has a large selection of magnets, ranging from low-power desk magnets to industrial-strength neodymium magnets. These magnets are rated according to magnetic power and are available in many varieties, including neodymium, ferrite, and electromagnets. A lifting magnet which can hold up to 1,000kg, for example, is priced at R29,910.  Processors and development kits such as the Raspberry Pi and Arduino are available from RS Components, along with a selection of accessories and hardware components. Customers can purchase touchscreens, extension boards, power supplies, and more for their microprocessor boards. A Raspberry Pi 3 Model B is priced at R579.  A wide selection of tools is available from the retailer, including multi-tools, power tools, and kits designed for certain applications. A DeWalt staple and nail gun is priced at R15,047.  Product developers looking to prototype their devices can purchase Printed Circuit Boards (PCBs) from RS Components. They can also buy the tools required to build and etch their own circuit boards. A double-sided matrix board is priced at R899.  From flash memory chips to logic circuits, RS Components stocks many electronic chips. Whether you’re creating a prototype or repairing a product, chances are you will find the chip you need. An Altera FPGA programmable logic circuit is available for R799.  A range of 3D printers is also available from the online store. The Makerbot Replicator Z18 5th Gen 3D Printer is priced at R118,154.  Durable computers like the Panasonic Toughbook and Toughpad range are available to order from RS Components. A 14-inch Panasonic Toughbook 53  is priced at R43,733.  Developers working on smart card products can purchase blank smart card prototypes with embedded EEPROM chips ready for programming. A Seeit 8KB Smart Card is priced at R226.  RS Components has a range of security-focused products, including contactless USB keys and NFC tags. An 8GB EviKey encrypted NFC USB drive is priced at R2,859. 