Datacentrix CEO Ahmed Mahomed has led his company for a decade, and during this time has seen the value of hard work and commitment. Mahomed told MyBroadband the path to the top is always down to “hard work, sacrifice on a personal and family level, and a helping hand from above”. He also climbed the ranks in the midst of the apartheid era, thanks to his company’s progressive policies at the time. Now at the pinnacle of his career, Mahomed said he finds it satisfying to lead teams that are building sustainable businesses. “I enjoy the ability to lead and impart skills and knowledge that you have learned during your journey,” he said. To lead requires the courage to make difficult, and at times unpopular, decisions to ensure long-term sustainability. Being CEO also has challenges, and the lack of ethics in the competitive landscape and dealing with racist behaviour are two issues which he dislikes. Mahomed started his working life at a young age as a part-time employee at a clothing outlet. His first “real” job was as a trainee manager, and he progressed within a few years to a senior position – later becoming an operations manager. These beginnings laid the groundwork for his career, and his advice to young people is to have a balance in one’s personal life and career. “The importance of placing great emphasis on family cannot be overstated, because when careers come to an end, family continues,” said Mahomed. He said ethics are also paramount in business, and a career built on ethical grounds will be rewarded.  MyBroadband asked Mahomed about his tech and business choices. Which smartphone do you use? iPhone Which laptop do you use? ThinkPad What is the best gadget you have ever bought? GoPro/Mobile Phone What is the worst gadget you have ever bought? Golfing gadgets What Internet connection (fixed broadband) do you have at home? Fibre from Webafrica What is the best investment you have ever made? My family What is the worst investment you have ever made? Steinhoff shares What is the best business book you have ever read? Good Strategy Bad Strategy