Huawei smartphones are becoming a household name in South Africa, with the company’s market share and brand consideration soaring over the past year. The company’s affordable and high-quality devices are quickly gaining popularity locally, with both its premium and mid-range products seeing impressive growth. Huawei Consumer Business Group South Africa General Manager Zhao Likun said the brand value of Huawei has climbed by 50% in this period, and they shipped a record 153 million smartphones to customers around the world in 2017. Additionally, consumer data shows an increasing number of South Africans have started looking to Huawei’s flagship smartphones to serve as their new premium devices. At the beginning of 2017, Huawei’s premium device market share in South Africa was 7%. By the end of the year, this figure rocketed to 13.8%, with the P10 and Mate 10 product ranges proving extremely popular. Likun said one of the biggest challenges the company faces in South Africa is improving its brand consideration. Huawei has made great strides in this regard over the past year, with Likun stating that the company’s brand consideration has risen from 13% to 25%. The company’s brand recognition in South Africa is currently at 83%, a figure Likun said the company is very happy with. He said Huawei plans to continue its push into the South African market by offering powerful and affordable devices to consumers, while improving localised service. “Going forward, we will increase our product portfolio and we will pay more attention to the middle and low-end,” said Likun. The company will also improve product delivery to local customers by building a distribution centre in South Africa. “This year we will construct our own South Africa warehouse, shortening delivery time from 3 weeks to 3 days,” said Likun. Likun said Huawei’s continued success in the global smartphone market is driven by a philosophy of innovation. “We believe innovation is the most important aspect of smartphone design. Last year we launched the first smartphone with an integrated AI chipset,” said Likun. This device was the Huawei Mate 10 Pro, which features the company’s Kirin 970 chipset. The chipset packs a built-in neural processing unit that allows it to power a host of AI features on the smartphone – from object recognition to real-time text translation. Huawei’s partnership with renowned camera company Leica has also positioned it as an innovative smartphone manufacturer. Thanks to this partnership, Huawei smartphones are outfitted with high-definition cameras which are held to the strictest quality standards. Likun said Huawei will continue to launch and market its flagship devices in South Africa – which pack the impressive features mentioned above – while also launching its new Y-Series smartphones this year. Through launching the affordable Y-Series devices in South Africa, Huawei will offer a varied product range – from high-quality, affordable smartphones to premium, cutting-edge devices. This article was published in partnership with Huawei.