The SA Post Office website is finally up, following three days of downtime. Accessing the website was working when tested several times this morning by MyBroadband. The website’s restoration follows emails to addresses on the postoffice.co.za domain delivering yesterday when sent. MyBroadband also found that an overdue payment for the postoffice.co.za domain was made – according to the ZACR whois service. This followed a major online failure at the Post Office this week, which included: The Post Office also experienced several days of downtime in February. At the time, the Post Office said connectivity was affected “by an interruption of the electricity supply at its data centre”. While the website is back online, the question of why it was down remains. MyBroadband made numerous attempts to contact the SA Post Office, which proved difficult during the downtime – an experience no doubt shared by Post Office customers. No contact information could be accessed on the Post Office’s website and emails to @postoffice.co.za addressed all bounced. The telephone numbers listed on the whois page for the “Admin” and “IT Support” at the Post Office were called, but both numbers returned an automated message that they had been changed – and that the new numbers were not available. When emails to the Post Office started working again, several contacts at the company were mailed – but none replied. Two standout failures to reply were Post Office CEO Mark Barnes, who has stated multiple times that the SA Post Office sees ecommerce as a big revenue driver. Another failure was a lack of reply from the “System Offline” email address – off.line@postoffice.co.za. This email address was launched and widely advertised in 2017, along with several other email addresses, with consumers encouraged to contact the address if they had any issues. “Your Post Office is serious about customer queries,” it said. “Send us an email, set out the problem, we will get it sorted!” All emails will be logged, tracked, and actioned, it added. MyBroadband also called the Post Office’s head office, on two numbers listed. One did not work, and the other rang without answer. The Post Office national call centre was also contacted, but this number also just rang – with an automated message playing at intervals stating that all agents were busy.