South Africa’s desktop PC market may not be showing much growth, but the demand for gaming machines is growing. This is according to Lenovo South Africa general manager Thibault Dousson, who said the gaming hardware market has seen a lot of growth locally – and will continue to do so. “There is no question, gaming is going to grow in South Africa,” said Dousson. Gaming’s potential for growth stands in contrast to the desktop PC and tablet industries, both of which have shown little growth worldwide of late. Dousson said he did not expect the demand for standard desktop machines to decrease much further, however, as there are applications for which they are preferable to laptops. “I don’t think desktop demand will disappear, as desktop machines can be robust, cheap, and reliable options for consumers who do not require portability.” Lenovo recently launched its Legion gaming hardware lineup in South Africa, with upgraded versions of the devices arriving later this year. The laptops sport powerful processors, desktop-class graphics cards, and a bold design which is aimed squarely at gamers. Despite the relatively low number of high-end device sales in South Africa – compared to more developed countries across the world – Lenovo’s Legion devices have been a success in the country. “Interest in gaming devices has been huge in the last six months,” said Dousson. Dousson said the local market is still in its infancy compared to large markets like China and Europe, but it has seen steady growth – which is expected to continue. He said a number of South African schools have begun offering eSports and gaming clubs, which could be a major driver for the growth of PC gaming in South Africa. Lenovo has also worked closely with several local schools by providing their gaming teams with hardware and assisting with the integration of computers in learning environments. The potential for PC gaming in the country is also evident by the fact that major entities like VS Gaming – which hosts million-rand tournaments – have been established. Comic Con is also set to come to South Africa for the first time this year, and VS Gaming will host its annual DGL Masters Finals at the event. The event will feature top PC gamers competing for a prize pool of over R1 million.