RS Components (RS), the trading brand of Electrocomponents plc (LSE:ECM), the global distributor for engineers, announced availability of the new CEL RoboxPRO additive manufacturing 3D printer, which offers high-end specifications and exceptionally fast print speeds. The dual extrusion machine primarily targets professional users, including electronics and mechanical engineers involved in creating designs that require advanced rapid prototyping capabilities to quickly realise their product concepts in durable, engineering-grade materials with water-soluble support material. A unique feature of the new RoboxPRO is the large interlocking door, designed to protect the printer’s fully enclosed build chamber with HEPA and active charcoal air filtration, which prevents unnecessary disturbance or damage to print builds in progress while ensuring users are not exposed to potentially toxic fumes. This important feature makes RoboxPRO highly suitable for professional or industrial environments and ideal for educational establishments such as universities, colleges or schools. Using Fused Filament Fabrication (FFF) 3D printing technology, a key differentiator of RoboxPRO is its patented needle-valve technology, which makes the 3D printer the fastest and most efficient dual extrusion machine available. The dual-nozzle printing capability means the unit can print two different colours, two different materials or with a dedicated material supporting the main part, including water-soluble or breakaway. Like the previous generation Robox 3D printers, RoboxPRO print heads are easily replaceable and can be upgraded to deliver extended and enhanced capabilities in the future, such as paste extrusion. The machine is designed for 1.75mm filaments and is capable of printing a wide range of materials including PLA, ABS, PETG, TPU, PC and nylon. RoboxPRO is also the first 3D printer to include an Olsson Ruby nozzle in the box. This is one of the most unique FFF extrusion nozzles currently available on the market, designed to print highly abrasive materials while retaining the excellent heat conductivity of brass. Its tip is made from ruby, which means that the nozzle is much more durable when compared to other nozzles. It can print with demanding, high-performance materials including Kevlar or Tungsten-filled ABS and glass or carbon-filled nylons for a lot longer before it starts to wear away. In many cases, the ruby tip can also lead to an improved surface finish. Another key specification includes a build volume of 210 x 300 x 400mm and a wide choice of layer resolutions from 0.5mm for ultra-fast printing, down to layers as small as 0.05mm (50-microns). RoboxPRO uses onboard controls with an integrated, full-colour 5in touchscreen display interface to enable users to change print settings, make build-plate calibrations and manage its connectivity options, which include Wi-Fi, Ethernet and USB. Other features of RoboxPRO include a climate-controlled build chamber, which features a HEPA filter and active charcoal air-purification system; adaptive bed levelling with no manual calibrations; an interchangeable, hassle-free build plate with no glue or tape required; and the Robox SmartReel™ material recognition system, which greatly simplifies the printing process with automatic print settings and job costings. RoboxPRO is compatible with other brands of filament, however, including Verbatim. Compatible with Windows, Apple and Linux operating systems, RoboxPRO is also supplied with the intuitive Robox AutoMaker software. RoboxPRO is now available from RS.  This article was published in partnership with RS Components.