Standard Bank suffered downtime this week, with customers unable to use certain services on the last day of February and the first day of March. At 10:04 on 28 February, Standard Bank tweeted that it was “experiencing technical difficulties on self-service channels”. At 08:25 on 1 March, the bank tweeted it was still experiencing “intermittent services on the Mobile Banking App”. Services affected included online banking via a PC browser and the smartphone app. Everything seems to be back to normal today, but there is just one problem – Standard Bank failed to provide any information on what happened. Standard Bank put out a handful of tweets during the downtime, telling users about the technical difficulties, and that was apparently it. MyBroadband spoke to several Standard Bank customers, who stated they received no email or SMS communications from the bank about the downtime. The Standard Bank website also failed to display any notice of the downtime when it was taking place, they said. On top of this, no explanation as to the cause of the downtime was provided to the customers MyBroadband spoke to. In an effort to inform Standard Bank customers and our readers, MyBroadband asked Standard Bank about what led to the downtime and for any technical details it could share. Standard Bank provided MyBroadband with its “official statement” – a line it had posted to Twitter. We are experiencing intermittent services on the Mobile Banking App. Our technical teams are working tirelessly to resolve the issues. We confirm that the following channels are available to our customers: ATMs, internet banking, branch and call centre services. You can contact the call center on 0860123000 or visit your nearest branch for urgent queries. We apologise for the inconvenience and are working to resolve the matter. Following on from yesterday’s technical issues, we confirm that the following channels are now available to customers: ATMs, internet banking, branch and call centre services. We are experiencing intermittent services on the Mobile Banking App. It must be noted that Standard Bank was asked for details on the cause of the downtime both during the occurrence, and once its systems were restored. The Standard Bank customers MyBroadband spoke to said they were disappointed the bank did not provide information to them about the downtime, including the cause. MyBroadband also received comments on its news website and forum from readers who said they were ex customers of Standard Bank. Two of the readers stated they received credit card statements from Standard Bank on 1 March – as the downtime was being resolved – despite not being with the bank for five and eight years respectively. Standard Bank was asked to provide comment on these reports, but it failed to reply to questions. The question therefore remains: Standard Bank, why won’t you tell us what is going on?