The Mercedes-Benz X-Class has received South African pricing, starting at R642,000 for the X220d 4X2 manual model. The prices are effective from 1 April 2018. Not announced as part of the lineup which received pricing were three X-Class models South Africans will be very interested in, however: The V6 X-Class is reportedly set to arrive in South Africa later in 2018, and will go head-to-head with the top-of-the-range Toyota Hilux – the 4.0 V6 4×4 Raider AT. South Africans love their bakkies, and the X-Class arriving in South Africa is set to start a new range of debates which will join the ranks of Hilux vs Amarok vs Ranger vs KB vs Navara. This will include the question: Is the X-Class a “real bakkie”? According to Mercedes-Benz, the answer is yes. “Although it breaks fresh ground as an urban lifestyle and family vehicle, the X-Class essentially remains a robust, functional bakkie with off-road capability, and is up to practically any challenge,” said Mercedes-Benz. The company said the X-Class features an array of impressive bakkie specifications, with it highlight three areas. The X-Class can carry over 1,000kg in terms of load and pull a trailer weighing up to 3,500kg, said the company. It is built on a ladder-type frame made of high-quality steel, and has the option of a stainless steel underbody protection panel if you regularly travel on rough roads. “So feel free to load up with tools, machines, material, or sports and leisure equipment,” said Mercedes-Benz. The X-Class – available with a low-ratio all-wheel-drive mode and optional differential lock on the rear axle – get drivers though “the most challenging of terrain”. The bakkie features a ground clearance of 202mm, and 222mm upon request. It will also “climb gradients of up to approximately 100% and remain drive stable at lateral inclinations of up to approximately 49.8 degrees”. Mercedes-Benz said the X-Class packs an easy-to-clean cargo area with a length of 1,587mm. “It can be loaded with soiled, wet, or dusty objects with no problems.” The cargo area also features 475mm-high sidewalls, a step on the rear bumper for users, and a 12V socket for electrical devices. The table below shows the pricing of the X-Class and the Toyota Hilux in South Africa. X250d Progressive and Power 4×4 automatic, and V6 X-Class models have not yet received South African pricing.      