The two-day Asterisk Community Conference 2018 kicked off at the Wanderers Club in Johannesburg on 14 March 2018. The conference, which is running on 14 and 15 March, provides delegates and employees the opportunity to network with like-minded attendees, listen to highly-acclaimed speakers, and engage with key international and local personalities in the Asterisk community. The goal of the event is to provide a local platform where South Africans can learn more about Asterisk without having to travel to expensive conferences elsewhere in the world. The first day of the event focused on knowledge-sharing through breakaway sessions, with a panel of experts that engaged with the delegates. “As the official Digium trainers of our competitors and our suppliers alike, we wanted to find a way to give back to the local Asterisk community,” said Colin Fair, Clarotech Consulting MD. “The telephony market is much bigger than just Asterisk, so rather than just trying to compete for the same segment of the market, we need to build the credibility of the product that can only be done through educating one another, and in doing this we will be able to compete with other proprietary vendors out there.” Asterisk has become strong in many application areas, which range from PBX implementations to advanced database-integrated contact center solutions – and includes nearly everything else within the communications space. The Asterisk Community is made up of 86,000 registered users, developers, and advocates who have contributed their time and effort to make Asterisk the world’s most widely-adopted open source communications project. “We are continuously building the community and expertise, and the platform is completely scalable. All we have to do is build credibility by talking to each other and by sharing success stories to encourage and educate everyone in the community,” said Fair. Alongside the conference, delegates can visit leading VoIP and Asterisk product vendors on the exhibition floor for hands-on interaction with the latest technology. The event is also hosting an exhibition area, with leading VoIP companies displaying their technology solutions. The headline sponsor of the 2018 Asterisk Community Conference & Expo is Digium, while the platinum sponsor is Clarotech Consulting. The gold sponsors are Connection Telecom and Miro Distribution. The silver sponsors are BitCo, Evenflow, Loway (QueueMetrics), Nology, Teleforge, Xenialab (xCally), Sangoma, and Kathea.   This article was published in partnership with Asterisk.