Taxify is investigating the murder of Siyabonga Langelihle Ngcobo who was found in the boot of a burnt vehicle on Thursday night. “Taxify’s high-priority team is currently investigating this as a matter of urgency to aid police in their investigation,” said Taxify’s country manager, Gareth Taylor. According to Sunnyside police spokesperson Captain Daniel Mavimbela, Ngcobo’s body was discovered in a Chevrolet Aveo near the Unisa Sunnyside Campus. Mavimbela said the circumstances surrounding the murder were being investigated. The company was deeply saddened by Ngcobo’s death, said Taylor. He said the company had contacted his family to ensure their safety after the incident. “Taxify is dedicated to making trips safer for drivers and riders. One such way is through partnerships. For this reason, Taxify has partnered with Namola. “Namola is a mobile app that helps users receive emergency assistance at the push of a button when users need it most.” The company encourages all drivers to download the app. “Other measures that Taxify has taken to improve safety include the continuous building of relationships with law enforcement, regular communicating with drivers about possible high-risk areas, and setting up a dedicated high-priority team that deals with cases related to safety.” Namola EMS Group CEO Peter Matthaei said: “The tragic passing of Mr Ngcobo is both sad and unnecessary. Through our partnership with Taxify, we are working to ensure that incidents like this are easier to prevent in the future. Namola’s priority is to ensure all our users are able to get help fast in any emergency situation.” News24 Gauteng community safety MEC Sizakele Nkosi-Malobane has condemned the killing of Siyabonga Langelihle Ngcobo whose body was found in the boot of a burnt Taxify vehicle. “I am disturbed and disgusted by this brutal murder of a Taxify cab driver. I condemn this killing in the strongest possible terms and I am hopeful that no stone will be left unturned within the criminal justice system to bring the perpetrators of this callous crime to book,” said Nkosi-Malobane. According to Sunnyside police spokesperson Captain Daniel Mavimbela, Ngcobo was discovered on Thursday in the boot of a Chevrolet Aveo near the Unisa Sunnyside campus. Both the police and the company said they were investigating the circumstances surrounding Ngcobo’s death. The transport department said it was alleged that Ngcobo was shoved into the boot of his car and taken to an open field in Sunnyside, where the vehicle was set alight. “The Department condemns this inhumane deed in the strongest terms and calls upon law enforcement services to leave no stone unturned in finding and prosecuting the perpetrators,” said spokesperson Collen Msibi. Nkosi-Malobane described the killing as senseless. “I urge members of the community who might have information on this case to come forward and report it to the authorities because police alone cannot win the battle against crime, but working closely with members of the community they can make great strides in rooting out criminal activities within our communities,” she said. News24