Vodacom has sent a statement to its business partners regarding the potential misuse of Location Based Services (LBS). “It has been brought to our attention that there may have been misuse of Vodacom’s LBS platform, placing both Vodacom and our customers at risk,” said Vodacom in the statement. The document was from the network’s wholesale division. The network told its business partners that its LBS platform cannot be used, under any circumstances, for location based services related to law enforcement or police investigations without “the required legal process”. RICA governs any legal disclosure of location based information and makes provisions for its disclosures, it added. “Any police officer who requires any location based information must approach the Office of Communication, Interception, and Monitoring within the SAPS, who will authenticate the request and make contact with Vodacom,” said Vodacom. It added that the tracing of MSISDNs and handsets without consent is unlawful and any WASP that uses Vodacom LBS for unlawful purposes will be suspended with immediate effect. Vodacom provided MyBroadband with the statement below, following questions to it on the LBS statement. “In the normal course of business, Vodacom sends regular communications to its WASP partners to remind them of adherence to the business rules that govern the services they use,” said Vodacom. “In this instance, communication was sent out from a compliance perspective, to ensure that all LBS WASPs are aligned in terms of deliverables and best practice.” “Vodacom always takes steps to ensure that their services are used in accordance to the rules set out and that Vodacom customers are protected as compliance is adhered to. Vodacom has a very strict criteria and approval process in order for a WASP to qualify and be approved to provide LBS.” “Vodacom has a no-tolerance approach to any noncompliance that takes place concerning our network and will take immediate action against any party who contravenes the agreement with Vodacom or any laws or rules that apply to any services.”