Michael Jordaan stepped down as FNB CEO at the end of 2013, after transforming it into the most innovative bank in the world. The technological innovations which were implemented under Jordaan continue to benefit FNB clients and remain a core part of FNB’s success. Many high-profile CEOs prefer to slow down, and even retire, after leaving a high-pressure job, but for Jordaan, this was not the case He continues to run his investment company Montegray Capital, and is involved in a number of companies which he invests in. Apart from being directly involved in Rain, he also recently announced the launch of Bank Zero in South Africa. Bank Zero will be app-driven and promises to offer clients lower fees, richer functionality, transparency, and better control. Jordaan said a reason for his continued drive is that you are defined not just by what you did in the past, but by what you do every single day. “I get a real kick out of improving things around me, even if only slightly, but all the time. After a while it is no longer work, merely how you self-actualise,” he said. While Bank Zero is a natural fit for Jordaan, moving into telecoms may have taken people by surprise. Jordaan has always been at the forefront of technology in banking, and at FNB they launched a banking app way before the competition. Under his leadership, FNB also sold more smart tablets than large retailers and had great success with FNB Connect. Jordaan said that banking and telecoms are not that far removed from one another, and believes the two fields will move closer together. “Rain is an opportunity to bring faster, more affordable data to the mobile market using the latest 4G+ technology,” he said. “It has the potential to make a real difference to people’s lives and grow the local economy.” Jordaan also shared information about his business and technology choices with MyBroadband.  What was your first job, and how much did it pay? As a student I did holiday work as an auditing clerk. The pay was very little, but it was valuable to experience how a business operates. Did you get a big break which propelled your career? Being accepted in the RMB graduate trainee programme was a major break for me, as I had worked in the more conventional Deutsche Bank until then. What advice do you have for a young person to advance their career? Take more (but clever) risks. Read and travel widely. Work for and with people that you respect. Which smartphone do you use? iPhone 7 Plus. Which laptop do you use? MacBook. What is the best gadget you have ever bought? My first iPhone. What is the worst gadget you have ever bought? Too many to mention. I love “toys”. What Internet connection (fixed broadband) do you have at home? Snowball WiFi (we live on a farm). What is the best investment you have ever made? Education. What is the worst investment you have ever made? Buying shares based on tips. Always do your homework. What is the best business book you have ever read? Only the Paranoid Survive by Andy Grove.