Huawei has revealed its new lineup of P-Series flagship smartphones at a launch event in Paris. The new smartphone range comprises the Huawei P20, P20 Pro, and P20 Lite. Huawei’s P20 series showcases bold new design features, including bezel-less, notched displays, and a triple-lens camera on the P20 Pro. Huawei said its new devices are designed to deliver professional photography features in a smartphone, and all P20 series phones sport high-resolution front cameras in addition to improved rear camera systems. The P20 Pro’s camera features 3x optical zoom, 5x hybrid zoom, and “best-in-class” 10x digital zoom. The device’s camera also includes zero shutter lag and intelligent motion detection, said Huawei. The P20 and P20 Pro can both record super slow-motion video at 960 frames-per-second. “With the Huawei P20 and P20 Pro, anyone can take professional pictures on their smartphone,” said Huawei Consumer CEO Richard Yu. The Huawei P20 Pro boasts a 6.1-inch AMOLED display, 6GB of RAM, and a 4,000mAh battery. Huawei’s Kirin 970 processor with integrated AI features powers this device and aids in processing of images taken with its triple-lens camera. The Huawei P20 sports an extended, bezel-less RGBW display and a Leica dual-lens camera system. Both devices have a 24MP front-facing camera and will be available in four colours, said Huawei – Twilight, Pink Gold, Midnight Blue, and Black. The Kirin 970 enables both devices to take long-exposure photographs with minimal blur by using its AI processor to automatically stabilise images. Huawei said South Africa would be part of the initial launch wave for the Huawei P20 and P20 Pro. The company also launched two new audio accessories, a pair of wireless earphones called FreeBuds and a pair of active noise cancelling earphones powered by USB-C. Huawei also unveiled its new Mate RS smartphone built in partnership with Porsche Design. The Mate RS has a similar triple-camera system to that featured on the P20 Pro, but it is placed in the centre of the device at the back. The fingerprint sensor is also on the back of the smartphone, below the Leica camera system. In addition to the physical fingerprint sensor on the back of the device, the Mate RS also sports an in-screen fingerprint scanner. The Mate RS Porsche Design sports a 6-inch, 2K OLED display which is curved around the smartphone’s edges. The device boasts an impressive 512GB of storage, has an IP67 rating, and is available in either black or red. The Huawei P20 and P20 Pro are available at the following prices from local online retailer Technomobi. The Huawei Mate RS is available globally at the following prices: There is currently no South African pricing available for the Huawei Mate RS Porsche Design.  