Innovation in Artificial Intelligence (AI) is advancing rapidly – faster than many experts expected – bringing with it advanced levels of customer service. “People have no idea how fast the world is changing,” said Francois van der Merwe, Teleforge CEO, speaking at the launch of Freshworks in the South African market. “We are moving into a world where everything is connected, with massive increases in computational power, and advanced technologies that leverage both the cloud and AI.” This has made markets increasingly competitive, and in order to succeed, businesses cannot merely offer quality products and services – they need to offer exceptional customer service as well. Frustrating customer service is still far too common, and this affects the competitiveness of many businesses. “Poor customer service arises from the fact that departments are typically siloed, and that makes good support a real challenge,” said Arihant Jain, Freshworks Director for Middle East and Africa. “Customers often feel as though they are trapped inside a ticket, stuck on an assembly line where they need to keep providing the same details, like their order number, over and over again to different operators.” A study by the Customer Contact Council revealed that customer loyalty is not driven by the products you stock or services you offer, but rather by the amount of effort it takes to do business with your company. Customer loyalty, then, depends on the effectiveness of your customer service. “The customer support model is broken, however,” said Jain. “We need to get people off the assembly line and start offering customer service that is not good, but exceptional.” While good customer support is characterised by fast and accurate service, exceptional customer support takes this a step further. Jain argued that contact centres need a “Pit Stop Model” – when monitoring and reacting to customer queries, centre agents and businesses must demonstrate the same level of collaboration, accuracy, and urgency that enables Formula 1 pit crews to change a complete set of tyres for a race car in under five seconds. “Different departments need to work together to turn a good experience into an exceptional experience,” said Jain. “The Pit Stop Model enables companies to build a customer-centric culture by focusing on relationships and using people to build those relationships – putting people over processes.” With the Pit Stop Model, Jain noted that companies need to: At the heart of each point Jain lists is the importance of establishing a personal connection with the client. Pit crews know every inch of the car inside and out, and contact centre agents must similarly know their customers and be properly trained to deal with any situation. “Consider your most important conversations and how you have those discussions,” added van der Merwe. “When you need to close a deal, request funding, or even ask someone to marry you, you do it in person – not over Facebook. The best way to communicate with people is personally, and it’s important to leverage technology to give people that personal touch.” Freshworks products make it “refreshingly easy” for teams to collaborate with each other, and also help businesses provide their customers with the best experience possible. Freshdesk, for example, is a context-sensitive, multichannel customer support solution that allows enterprises to anticipate, automate, and accelerate customer interactions. With Freshdesk, teams can work together to resolve customer issues faster, and customer support agent efficiency is improved through game mechanics and smart automation. In addition to Freshdesk, Freshworks’ suite of products include: Freshworks has integrated AI technology into its solutions, with Freshsales offering AI-based lead scoring to identify high-potential leads via lead property, website, in-app, and email behaviour. “This is an exciting time to own a business, especially a technology business,” said van der Merwe. “But to make the most of the rapid advances in technology and to ensure that you offer exceptional service, it is important to partner with progressive companies, like Teleforge and Freshworks.” For more information, visit the Teleforge website. This article was published in partnership with Teleforge.