Business and technology are moving at unprecedented speeds, and it can be challenging to keep up with the evolving software, hardware, and resources available. IT professionals need to constantly improve and “upgrade” their skillsets in order to remain competitive. Professionals who upskill by taking short training courses are likely to find a better job or new opportunities, according to Randstad’s Workmonitor survey for Q3 2017, yet many never take the initiative. According to the study, while 90% of employees worldwide believe that regularly updating their skills and competencies is essential to enhancing their employability, over a third have done nothing to upskill in the past 12 months. Today’s work environment is one of constant change, in which employees have no guarantees that the skills they use in their day-to-day work will still be relevant in five years. Keeping skills up-to-date is therefore critical for employees looking to “future-proof” themselves in an increasingly-competitive market. To enable IT professionals to get the skills they need to remain competitive, CTU is offering innovative solutions and services in education that enable modern learning in the new digital world, including learnerships and internships, customised learning solutions, and on-site training. Included in this, CTU provides numerous technology and certification-based programmes, including CompTIA Stackable Certifications, Microsoft, Cisco and SUSE. CTU is also a registered learning partner for Microsoft and Cisco, and has 199 testing seats at its 15 nationwide campuses. IT professionals can choose from over 900 training courses, including those with self-paced, on-demand, and VILT learning methodologies, to become employable, certified graduates. Courses available include: A recent student, Gareth Fletcher, who attended the CTT + training course with CTU in February 2018, commented that the course was well-presented and provided practical experience that was immediately applicable. “The entire experience was excellent: from the organisation of the class, the friendliness of the staff, and the quality of the learning materials and instruction,” he said. “It’s important that when you invest in a course like this, that the materials and learnings are directly applicable to your life, and that you can immediately apply what you have learnt and improve how you do your job and build your career. This is exactly what I had hoped for when I registered at CTU, and my expectations were not only met, but actually exceeded.” To give professionals the opportunity to experience what CTU has to offer, a National Open Day will take place on 14 April 2018, and for those who aren’t able to attend in person, a Virtual Open Day will run concurrently on Facebook. The open day will allow potential students to test drive CTU’s programmes, find out more about the products on offer, take campus tours, meet the instructors, and potentially earn training discounts of up to 10%. Potential students will also gain important information about the processes, programme information, student life, accommodation, payment options, and more. For more information, visit the CTU website.  This article was published in partnership with CTU Training Solutions.