ELB Engineering Services and IoT.nxt are partnering to fully cover Sedibeng’s minerals processing plant with IoT systems – a first in South Africa. The IoT-driven plant, which ELB is building for Sedibeng, is expected to come online in September 2018 and will incorporate the latest advances in big data analytics, image recognition, artificial intelligence, and machine learning to drive optimisation, cost savings, and safety within the plant. “It’s no longer enough to merely supply equipment and services,” said ELB CEO Stephen Meijers. “The differentiator for companies of the future lies in the ability to generate and analyse data, and to use these findings to significantly improve operations, such as reducing power consumption without decreasing yield or managing the efficiency of employees.” Meijers added that, following the completion of the processing plant, the IoT platform will be extended to the Sedibeng mine as well. IoT will form part of one of the main areas of focus for ELB Intelligent Solutions, which has been established as a subsidiary of ELB Engineering Solutions. ELB Intelligent Solutions will also focus on exponential technologies that include artificial intelligence, robotics, and large-scale 3D printing. “We are very fortunate to be the systems integration partner of IoT.nxt. This partnership is diversifying the knowhow of ELB into a different direction, while still being connected to the traditional minerals and metals business,” said Meijers. “Considering the future growth of ELB as well as its business philosophies, this partnership is a perfect fit,” said Eric Croeser, IoT.nxt mining director of partnerships. “ELB has extensive industry knowledge and experience, and ELB Intelligent Solutions will offer best of breed technologies and knowledge to the mining industry.” Once Sedibeng has successfully come online, ELB intends to roll out the IoT solutions to its other sites – as well as into the broader South African mining industry. Meijers said the solutions are not restricted to mining, however, and can be universally applied in industries like transport, logistics, containerised management, port management, hotels, and airports – anywhere with moving assets and connected devices. “We are also using this IoT technology to create green buildings,” said Meijers. “We will be installing the platform in our own offices, and once installed, the platform will know how many people are in the building, how much heat is being emitted, and can regulate the air conditioning accordingly.” The system will also be able to switch off the air conditioning and lights to conserve power when the building is empty, will track how often the elevators are in use, will monitor water consumption, and much more. Following the successful implementation at ELB’s offices in Johannesburg, the green building initiative will be rolled out to other buildings in Johannesburg. “South Africa still has a way to go with modern-day destructive disruptive technology. We are still too far behind the rest of the world. Instead of trying to catch up in little steps, however, we can leapfrog, and that’s what we are going to do with ELB Intelligent Solutions,” Meijers concluded. For more information, visit the ELB website. This article was published in partnership with ELB Engineering Services.