Most businesses own IT equipment from multiple vendors – some of which is new, some that is a year or two old, and some that is headed off-warranty. Using network equipment from multiple vendors is appealing as it offers businesses limitless solution offerings, including those from niche players. A multi-vendor approach also allows businesses to upgrade selectively, choosing the best product for each network component while integrating with a data centre’s existing equipment. When things go wrong, however, getting maintenance support from multiple vendors can be both expensive and inefficient. “If you run a busy data centre, what happens on Saturday night when something goes wrong? If you rely on multiple providers or manage your technical support in-house, you can expect a long weekend at the office,” says IBM. The solution to streamlining the maintenance support for hardware, software, and multiple vendor relationships is to have a single point of contact. This allows businesses to enhance equipment return on investment, reduce IT support costs, and enable predictable budgeting. “With only one point of accountability, IBM can support nearly all your data centre needs and reduce the number of support engineers in your data centre,” says IBM, a leading provider of multivendor support services with 30 years of experience. Rather than juggling multiple support contracts, IBM offers businesses one point of administration – that is one agreement with one invoice and one contract term. And when disaster strikes, there is one number to call and one team focused on stopping the crisis in its tracks and preventing future problems before they occur. IBM offers technical support solutions to fit the unique needs of each data centre while helping to optimise system availability, reduce costs, and reduce IT complexity – relieving staff from the burden of system maintenance and allowing them to concentrate on critical business initiatives and innovation instead. IBM has a team of highly-trained technicians, holding key industry certifications and averaging over 14 years of experience. The team offers support for IBM hardware and software, as well as many other leading brands, including Cisco, Citrix, F5, Juniper, VMware, Microsoft, Red Hat, Apple, Dell, HP Servers, Lenovo, and many more. IBM’s lifecycle approach also helps businesses optimise the longevity of their equipment, while enabling more predictable and consistent budgeting through better equipment lifecycle maintenance. As-a-Service style offerings provide more visibility into IT support costs – allowing for more informed business decisions and investments. IBM Multivendor Support Services offers the following: “Managing your data centre can be much simpler when you trust in the reliability and experience of IBM to support your heterogeneous IT data centre environment,” says IBM, who delivers consistent service in over 180 countries, with local offices in key African countries including South Africa, Nigeria, and Mauritius. For more information, visit the IBM website.  This article was published in partnership with IBM.