Courier deliveries to homes and businesses are becoming increasingly common as the online shopping industry grows. However, many people still struggle with companies finding their exact location, due to ambiguity in their address name or if they are in an office park, for example. A startup called what3words aims to fix this problem by assigning a three-word address to every 3m x 3m square space in the world. The company has attracted the attention of major corporates, with Mercedes-Benz parent Daimler recently purchasing a 10% stake. The service uses a mathematical algorithm to separate a map of the world and label every 3m x 3m block as a combination of three words. Each block’s name is unique and provides a precise location, while being easy to remember. The platform also supports multiple languages. No words are shared between language versions and once a user finds an address in one language, they can switch languages and discover the address for the same square in a different language. The mathematical algorithm used can be bundled into a 12MB package, which makes it easy to fit on a modern smartphone It also allows users to search for 3-word addresses both online and offline. An example of a location is the Virgin Active in Rosebank, which is “breathed.urgent.fleet”. The service does not support Google Maps, but can be embedded into other services or accessed via the what3words free map tool.  Improving delivery accuracy is only a small part of what3words’ potential. The startup aims to change addressing around the world, affecting everything from taxi services to humanitarian missions. The company offers numerous products to individual and enterprise customers, including: The business around the world which have already started using what3words’ services include self-driving initiatives, national railways, and South African restaurant guide EatOut. The company also aims to make addressing easier in rural areas, and is not only focused on urban centres. To see your three-word address, head to the what3words website.