Huawei has announced that it will launch its mobile cloud services in South Africa. The launch of these services will allow local consumers to take advantage of seamlessly-integrated Huawei cloud-based applications, including music streaming and a dedicated app store. Huawei vice president of consumer cloud service Su Jie said the company’s regional centres in Germany, Singapore, and China already offer consumer-facing cloud services to over 200 countries around the world. Huawei’s mobile cloud currently services over 340 million users, a figure which has grown by 61% over the last year. Popular uses for the company’s powerful cloud platform include mobile payments, data storage, and secure application distribution through the Huawei App Gallery. “We want to localise Huawei’s mobile cloud services as much as possible and offer services that plug seamlessly into the everyday lives of consumers,” said Jie. “One of our key objectives is to create an open ecosystem for local developers and give them an opportunity to contribute to our services.” The company will roll out six services as part of the initial launch of its local mobile cloud services. Each of these applications is tailored specifically to South African consumers and aims to improve the overall end-user experience for Huawei owners locally. Following the roll out of these apps, Huawei will continue to localise its cloud services platform and offer more applications in South Africa. By providing mobile cloud services in South Africa, Huawei will improve its service offering and deliver an integrated product to consumers consisting of chipset, cloud, and hardware-powered features. Combining these three aspects of smartphone design delivers a greater user experience, said Jie. “Mobile cloud services are becoming an increasingly important part of the mobile experience,” said Jie. Huawei has also partnered with entities such as the RCM School of Excellence in order to promote the training and education of South African app developers and offer them an open ecosystem to create products within. These initiatives will aid the creation of South African content on Huawei’s mobile cloud platform. This article was published in partnership with Huawei.