Apple launched its “new” iPad this week, unveiling an upgraded device in a familiar form factor. The iPad, a 9.7-inch device, is aimed at the education sector and learners in classrooms, following a trend set by many affordable Chrome OS tablets and laptops being launched for this segment. Besides stating as much during the iPad’s launch, Apple said the iPad 9.7-inch will sell for $299 for scholars, and $329 at retail. The device is a refreshed version of the previous 9.7-inch iPad, which now packs updated hardware and more modern features. This includes support for Apple Pencil, improved performance, and greater versatility. “iPad is our vision for the future of computing,” said Greg Joswiak, Apple’s VP of Product Marketing. “This new 9.7-inch iPad takes everything people love about our most popular iPad and makes it even better for inspiring creativity and learning.” Apple said the new iPad combines powerful hardware and software to deliver a great experience to users. The new device packs an A10 Fusion chip with 64‑bit desktop-class architecture, which Apple said delivers 40% faster CPU and 50% faster graphics performances. The front and rear cameras deliver great images in low light, and also offer HD video recording. On the software side, the new iPad runs iOS 11, which offers an array of features. These include multitasking with Split View and Slide Over, Apple Pencil support for drawing and note taking, the Files app and Drag and Drop functionality for the management of your content and files, and support for native and third-party cloud storage. Apple has tied this all together in an aluminum unibody design. A standout feature of Apple’s devices is their displays, and the new iPad continues this tradition. The screen is a 9.7-inch LED-backlit unit, with touch functionality and IPS technology. It features a resolution of 2,048 x 1,536 – which results in 264 ppi – and is covered with a fingerprint-resistant oleophobic coating. On the connectivity side, Apple has stuck with the Lightning connector for cable support and charging, and no wireless charging support. The iPad is available as either a Wi-Fi, or Wi-Fi + Cellular model (both in 32GB or 128GB storage variants), with the latter sporting a nano-SIM tray for LTE connectivity. Bluetooth 4.2 is also included with the device. The table below compares the specifications of the new iPad vs the iPad Pro.  