This Super Rugby season, Vodacom is offering exclusive rewards to Vodacom Red clients – including weekly rewards as well as the chance to win one of several rugby and lifestyle experiences to be shared with SA’s favourite players. “The first of these will be a campout at Loftus for fathers and sons,” said Michelle van Eyden, Executive Head of Sponsorship at Vodacom. “They will spend a night camping in luxury tents on the main field and mixing with the Vodacom rugby legends.” Other rewards that can be won in 2018 include the chance to present a Man of the Match Award, gain access to the Vodacom Red Suite during matches, drive a supercar at the Vodacom Red Track Day, and catch a tiger fish during a 5-star outdoor experience. Your child could also lead their favourite team onto the field before a Vodacom Super Rugby match as the official child mascot. The full list of rewards is available on the Vodacom Red Rewards website.  “Vodacom Red Rewards are all about giving back to the fans, but Vodacom also cares about the community, which is why the #Tries4Smiles campaign was launched,” said van Eyden. “This is an exciting initiative that supports children born with a cleft palate or cleft lip in partnership with The Smile Foundation.” The Smile Foundation assists children with facial abnormalities to receive free corrective surgery, having helped to put the smile back on the faces of over 2,000 children to date. This season, Vodacom will reward every try scored by a South African team during Vodacom Super Rugby with a donation of R3,000 towards the Smile Foundation. “Vodacom is also helping The Smile Foundation to find these children, as many of them are hidden due to the stigma surrounding the condition. After the operation, we take some rugby players to their schools and throw a party to make a big deal of them to change the perception that their peers have of them,” added van Eyden. Rugby fans can get involved by downloading The Smile Foundation App or visiting their website www.smilefoundationsa.org to refer a child or to donate. Additionally, the Smile Foundation SMS donation line is up and running, and supporters can put a smile on a child’s face by SMSing “Smile” to 38413 to donate R10. For more information on the Vodacom Tries for Smiles campaign, visit https://now.vodacom.co.za/article/more-reasons-to-smile-with-tries4smiles or follow @VodacomRugga. This article was published in partnership with Vodacom.