Samsung’s new Galaxy Note 9 is a powerhouse of a smartphone with many awesome features. Two which stand out straight away are the incredible storage capacity and multi-function S Pen. Samsung has packed the top-end Galaxy Note 9 with 512GB of internal storage along with support for a 512GB microSD card. This means that users can access up to 1TB of storage space on their smartphone – a truly impressive feature, and one which far outperforms many high-end laptops available today. Equally impressive is the new S Pen, which features Bluetooth connectivity. This means that besides the writing and drawing functionality the pen provides, you can use the S Pen as a presentation tool and remote control for the Note 9. Controlling actions such as taking photos, going through slideshows, and playing and pausing videos are all catered for with the new S Pen. Powering these impressive features is Samsung’s Exynos 9810 octa-core processor. The new processor is paired with up to 8GB of RAM and Android 8.1 to provide an excellent user experience, while connectivity is taken care of via an advanced LTE cellular modem. The LTE modem is capable of download speeds of 1.2Gbps, combining technologies such as six-carrier aggregation (6CA), support for 4×4 multiple-input and multiple output (MIMO), and 256 quadrature amplitude modulation (256-QAM). As with any Samsung flagship smartphone, the camera system is top class on the Galaxy Note 9. The Note 9 features a dual-lens rear camera system which packs a 12MP wide-angle and 12MP telephoto lens. On the front, Samsung has placed a powerful 8MP sensor. Combined with the smartphone’s built-in intelligent functionality, this ensures that you get the exact photo you are looking for every time – whether shooting a scene or a selfie. More great features on the device include fingerprint and facial recognition, IP68 rating, support for Samsung Pay and Samsung Knox, and a USB-C port. And if you were concerned that all these powerful features are too power-hungry to see your Note 9 lasting on a single charge, Samsung has taken care of this in the battery department. The Galaxy Note 9 packs a massive 4,000mAh battery, which will give you more than enough power for your day’s tasks. In terms of modern smartphones, the Galaxy Note 9 ranks up there as a powerful, functional, and stylish masterpiece. MyBroadband editor-at-large Jan Vermeulen provides and overview of the Galaxy Note 9 in the video below. <span data-mce-type="bookmark" style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;" class="mce_SELRES_start">﻿</span> This article was published in partnership with Samsung.