One of the advantages to being a PC gamer is the variety of hardware which is available and compatible with the platform. While some gamers will build small budget PCs to serve as living room consoles, others might build powerful and expensive machines which drive the most demanding virtual reality games. Retro gaming PCs or a flight simulator at your desk are also possible thanks to the hardware available in South Africa. We have rounded up some of the coolest PC gaming gadgets available locally and listed them below to show you what’s on offer. Samsung’s 49-inch gaming display boasts a curved panel paired with QLED technology. It’s 3,840 x 1,080 resolution and 32:9 aspect ratio make it a one-of-a-kind display which will look impressive in any gaming room.  If you are looking for the best in gaming audio, you’ll find it hard to beat this SteelSeries bundle. Pairing the impressive Arctis Pro headset with its GameDAC, SteelSeries delivers one of the best headsets on the market for gamers and audiophiles alike.  If you’re a part-time Twitch streamer or YouTuber, a good microphone is an invaluable tool for improving the quality of your content. The Razer Seiren provides studio-grade recording via a USB connection, offering an easy solution to most recording problems.  If you’re really into flight simulators, you’ll have definitely thought about getting a Hands On Throttle-And-Stick (HOTAS) controller, if you haven’t got one already. The Saitek Pro X56 is one of the best controllers around, offering 189 programmable controls, six degrees of freedom, and independent twin throttles.  Spending over R1,000 on a mouse pad may seem a bit unwise, but Corsair’s MM1000 has a unique feature – Qi Wireless charging. Buying this mouse pad means you need simply lay your compatible smartphone or other device on it to charge it up from your desktop.  The HTC Vive offers a top-of-the-range virtual reality experience and is the dream peripheral for many PC gamers. With its high-resolution display, play area tracking, and compatibility with hundreds of Steam VR titles, it is the perfect headset for any VR application.  The variety of controllers available for the desktop platform which use USB 2.0 include devices reviving the nostalgia of physical arcade games. Razer’s Atrix Arcade Stick connects to your desktop PC via USB 2.0, and is compatible with XInput for ease of use on both PC and Xbox 360.  Racing fans would be pleased to get their hands on this high-end racing wheel for PC, which is a 9:10 scale replica of the wheel of the real Ferrari 488 Challenge car and is officially licensed by Ferrari. A 40W force feedback motor, metal paddle shifters, and Italian leather hand-stitched wrapping make this wheel one of the most unique peripherals on the market.  Mixed reality headsets retain the best of VR and AR headsets and are compatible with some VR games in addition to AR applications. If you are looking to play around in augmented reality games or simply want a VR headset for less than the HTC Vive, Acer’s mixed reality visor could be your best bet. 