Caller Line Identification Presentation (CLIP) lets users receiving calls identify the number placing the call. This service allows you to see the location and number of the person calling you when your smartphone rings. On many mobile networks in South Africa, this service is activated by default on prepaid SIMs free of charge. Depending on their mobile operator, however, contract customers are charged for this CLIP service – either as a separate value-added service or as a cost contributing towards the price of their contract. MyBroadband therefore asked major mobile operators in South Africa why prepaid customers are not billed for CLIP, while contract customers are. A Vodacom spokesperson said that customers are charged for CLIP as it is considered a value-added service. “Vodacom’s contracts are airtime, SMS, and data centric. Any additional service to a contract package is considered a value added service (VAS) and CLIP is considered a VAS,” said Vodacom. “Naturally, customers are charged for value added services, should they wish to activate them.” The service is provided for free to prepaid SIMs, however, as these products do not allow for the billing of value-added services. “The prepaid package does not allow for any valued added services as there is no billing profile and CLIP is pre-provisioned on all prepaid SIM cards,” said Vodacom. CLIP is not enabled by default on contract SIMs, and costs R9.50 per month.  Telkom said the cost of CLIP for contract customers on its FreeMe products is included in the contract price. “Telkom contract customers on our FreeMe post-paid product are not being charged for CLIP, as this is included in the FreeMe contract,” it said. “Data customers do not always require CLIP, since the data is used for streaming/browsing, however, CLIP can be added at an additional charge.” CLIP can be activated at a fee of R8.57 per month. Telkom added that its prepaid customers are not charged for CLIP. “Telkom also does not charge for SIM and connection fee across all its post-paid products,” Telkom said.  MTN has the most unique CLIP billing system out of all mobile operators who responded, and allows both contract and prepaid customers to receive CLIP at no charge. “Prepaid customers are not billed for CLIP,” said MTN South Africa. “Contract subscribers are billed for CLIP, but at the same time they are 100% discounted on the service.” This rule is only applicable to consumer customers, and MTN business models are different – based on contracts signed by specific companies. CLIP is activated by default on all MTN numbers. 