Rain CEO Willem Roos has dismissed speculation that they plan to stop their unlimited off-peak mobile data product. The mobile operator currently offers consumers the option to add unlimited off-peak data for R250 per month to their Rain plan. Unlimited data usage is valid for 19 hours a day, except at peak times – 18:00 to 23:00 – when consumers pay the standard 5c per MB. This is currently the best value-for-money offer in the South African mobile market, and other operators are hesitant to offer unlimited mobile data offerings. In fact, Vodacom CEO Shameel Joosub warned Rain that it will face network capacity constraints in the future, which can cost a lot of money to fix. It was therefore not surprising when Rain announced in July it will suspend the sale of its fixed-LTE products through partner ISPs – due to capacity constraints. Roos told MyBroadband that the popularity of its fixed and mobile products meant it was rapidly “utilising the currently-available capacity on our network”. “In order to ensure a continued great experience for all our customers, we have decided to suspend new sales of the fixed-wireless offering for the present time,” said Roos. With network constraints starting to influence Rain, many industry players predicted that the operator will be forced to change or even stop its off-peak unlimited data product. Roos, however, dismissed this speculation, saying they remain excited about their R250 unlimited off-peak package and “certainly plan to continue the offering”. “At this risk of sounding like a salesman, I really do think this is an excellent proposition for many customers,” he told MyBroadband. Roos said he carries a small MiFi device with a Rain SIM on the R250 option with him and uses the competition’s SIM on a low-end contract for voice calls and data coverage outside of metro areas. “Given that I have a fibre connection at home which I use during peak times – 18:00 to 23:00 – I hardly use any mobile data during that time,” said Roos. “This setup has dramatically reduced my cellular data costs. For users with a dual-SIM phone, the solution is even more elegant if the default data SIM is configured to be Rain.”