Apple has revealed its latest wearable, the Apple Watch Series 4. Apple chief operating officer Jeff Williams said the company is taking the Apple Watch to the next level with the newest generation of the device, improving functionality across multiple areas. “Fitness is at the core of Apple Watch, encouraging you to be more active by closing your rings and tracking your workouts,” said Williams. The Watch Series 4 boasts a significantly larger screen, over 30% larger than previous generations, too – and is also thinner than previous models. Applications have been redesigned to account for the larger display and Apple has included new customisable watch faces. Various applications have been enhanced for the new device, and the Breathe app is now available as a standalone watch face – synchronising dynamic images with your breathing.  The Apple Watch Series 4’s digital crown now delivers haptic feedback for a better navigation experience, and the speaker is 50% louder than previous-generation devices, said Apple. “Radio waves can now pass through both the front and the back of Series 4, improving cellular reception,” added Williams. Apple’s S4 chipset powers the Series 4, and includes a 64-bit dual-core processor which delivers up to twice the performance of previous chips. The Series 4 also includes a next-generation accelerometer and gyroscope combination, which enables a new feature on the device that allows it to detect when the wearer accidentally falls. Apple studied falls and discovered repeatable patterns which can be analysed and diagnosed as a fall by the Series 4 chip. The device also sports three new heart monitoring features: Williams noted that the Apple Watch Series 4 is the first ECG product offered over the counter directly to consumers, and can deliver ECG results in 30 seconds. The Apple Watch Series 4 also features the same 18-hour battery life as previous-generation devices, despite the collection of new features. Apple’s new wearable also retains the hardware features of the previous device, along with various improvements – such as the addition of Bluetooth 5.0. The Apple Watch Series 4 will be available from 21 September at $399 for the GPS model and $499 for the LTE version. The device will be available in a number of finishes, including silver, gold, space grey, and new gold stainless version. The Apple Watch Series 4 is also available in Hermès and Nike+ versions, which each feature exclusive watch faces and bands. Williams noted that all band colours and band styles fit any generation of the Apple Watch. Apple further announced that the Watch Series 3 would now be available at a new starting price of $279. 