Huawei is working hard to develop 5G-capable technology, and has made significant progress towards bringing services to consumers. The company has also made large strides in the development of its smartphone modem technology, and is getting closer to shipping its first 5G handset. Speaking at a media briefing in Johannesburg, Huawei Consumer Business Group South Africa VP of Handsets Product Line Shawn Sheng said the company expects to launch its first 5G smartphone by the end of 2019. The technology behind 5G is still being developed as manufacturers tackle the various challenges around developing high-bandwidth modems which allow for low latency and can fit in a smartphone’s chassis. Huawei also recently unveiled its Kirin 980 mobile chipset, which features a 4.5G LTE modem and is built on a 7nm manufacturing process. The company’s upcoming flagship smartphones will feature this processor, and while the devices released in the immediate future might not be 5G-enabled, the Kirin 980 does support the technology. “For our first 5G smartphone, we will use the Kirin 980 and another 5G modem called Balong 5000,” Sheng said. “The Balong 5000 mobile 5G modem will be launched next year.” He noted that their 5G smartphone released next year would support legacy technologies such as 2G,3G, and 4G too, and would require Huawei to overcome some interesting challenges. “5G smartphones should support all kinds of network architecture, including Non-StandAlone and StandAlone (NSA and SA),” Sheng said. “Both of these will be supported by the 5G smartphone with Balong 5000.” Implementing 5G networking hardware into a mobile handset also requires better cooling, a bigger footprint, and more transmitters. Sheng said Huawei’s 5G smartphone will need have two transmitters instead of one, fitting larger components into a modern chassis. “For the 5G smartphone, we will provide two transmitters and 5G modems and antennas which support all previous standards,” he said. “This translates to a board size 1.3-times bigger than 4G components.” He said Huawei still aims to provide a modern, stylish smartphone with 5G capabilities and has developed innovative technologies to achieve this. Subsequently, Huawei’s 5G smartphone will feature a HiSilicon ASIC dedicated to 5G networking, upload and download decoupling, and cutting-edge smartphone cooling solutions.