Technology has changed the possibilities in teaching and learning, and the market for digital education is booming. According to Statista, projections show the e-learning market worldwide is forecast to surpass $243 billion by 2022. Thanks to advances in technology, teachers today have many different means with which they can present classes – such as online devices, online courses, and digital textbooks – allowing them to help students learn more effectively. This has also been made possible as schools around the world and in South Africa now have access to the Internet. However, not everyone is connected, and there are many schools and teachers on the lookout for an interactive learning solution without the need for an Internet connection and expensive technology. “At Pearson, we understand the challenges teachers face in the classroom, and would like to help teachers make the best of their teaching day,” said Seshni Naicker, Director of MyPedia Business Development. “Therefore, we have developed a complete teaching solution called MyPedia, designed to deliver engaging lessons and ultimately improve learner performance.” Incorporating their global experience in education, Pearson delivers on their promise to contribute towards effective technology-enabled learning with MyPedia. Using MyPedia, teachers can access offline, interactive lesson presentations to use in any classroom environment, and create exciting and interactive CAPS-approved lessons to enhance their front-of-class teaching. The interactive teaching platform aims to bridge the gap between technology and effective learning, and provides an effective front-of-class teaching solution that simplifies the time spent preparing lessons. The lesson presentations successfully integrate curriculum-aligned content with MyPedia Learner Assessment Practice Books and videos, as well as assessments. To use the MyPedia platform, teachers will need a USB device and a USB port on a PC or laptop, in order to showcase a project or to the class. While it is ideal to use offline, MyPedia also offers the great feature of online use via the MyPedia app for students, parents, and teachers to easily connect in one online space. The app features assignments, videos, interactive exercises, class chats, learner reports, and a teacher dashboard to view learner progress. In addition to great content, Pearson provides dedicated support throughout the entire MyPedia journey to ensure effective implementation. To try out this new game-changing teaching platform, simply click here to request a demo. Pearson is also giving away 5 eBook vouchers, each to the value of R500 to use on the Pearson SA eStore. To enter: Competition ends Friday, 28 September 2018 and standard competition rules apply. For more information, visit the Pearson MyPedia Website. This article was published in partnership with Pearson.