South Africans don’t like paying their TV licences. This is evident in the SABC’s latest financial results, which showed a 27.8% compliance level when it came to TV licence payments. While many people can afford the R265 annual fee, the unwillingness to pay is based on not wanting to fund a corrupt institution. Unfortunately, when you want to buy a new TV in South Africa you are required to have a valid TV licence. If you do not have one, you must pay for one at the store before they will release the TV to you. Users are also required to pay any penalties for failing to pay on time. Fortunately, there is a way around this requirement – and its name is the Mecer 55-inch UHD LED Smart Panel Monitor. Spotted by a MyBroadband reader on Loot, the panel offers everything you want from a modern smart TV. Its runs Android, has a 55-inch UHD (3,840 x 2,160) display, packs two built-in 8W speakers, has wireless connectivity, sports multiple HDMI and USB ports, and comes with a remote control. Best of all, you do not require a TV licence to buy it – as it is not technically a TV. MyBroadband spoke to Mustek, Mecer’s parent company, about the display which it said launched earlier in 2018. “Since the infamous Plasma days, we have had a range of panels ranging from 32-inch to 65-inch. Competitively-priced, quality products have always been our focus. Keeping up with technology standards and changes, the Mecer LCD and later LED FHD and UHD panels were launched,” said Mustek. Mustek said the 55-inch Mecer panel mentioned above is perfect for home and commercial use. “Despite the panel not featuring a TV tuner, it can still be connected to a DStv decoder and provide full TV functionality, or an external smart media player to enjoy your favourite streaming services.” This means users can take advantage of services like Netflix, Showmax, and Amazon Prime on the unit. If you are looking for a smart TV minus the old-fashioned functionality of a TV tuner, a smart large-screen monitor may be for you.  