A number of South African banks recently provided feedback to MyBroadband regarding the risks of third-party EFT systems. Absa, FNB, and Nedbank told MyBroadband that they do not approve of third-party instant EFT services which require customers to log in with their banking details. The banks said they are working with industry bodies to highlight the risks of these services and establish safety standards. They added that customers who use these services are in violation of the bank’s terms and conditions, and they could be liable for any loss of funds. Following the chorus of disapproval towards these services, MyBroadband reached out to major instant EFT providers for their perspective on the practice. DPO PayGate offers a third-party EFT service in South Africa called SID Instant EFT. DPO PayGate MD Peter Harvey told MyBroadband that their product has been available and operating locally for a decade. “SID has been providing value added Instant EFT services to South African merchants and clients for over 10 years,” Harvey said. “We take security extremely seriously and absolutely no user credentials are stored on our systems.” He added that the SID Instant EFT product has grown substantially and the company is looking at building a direct interface with secure banking APIs to improve its solution. “It is important to us to work closely with the banks in every respect and in this regard we are engaging with them in order to update our EFT interfaces to the banking systems,” Harvey said. “Our SID payment service has grown tremendously in the last few years and scalability of this service is also a very important consideration.” “We believe that a direct interface to the banks via secure APIs will be the logical next step in this process and will provide an optimal solution for all parties,” he said.  Wirecard head of strategic development Shelley De Reuck told MyBroadband that the company’s secureEFT platform facilitates a session between a customer and online banking provider, and does not require consumers to provide their banking details to the company. “No bank login details are ever stored beyond the point of login,” De Reuck said. “Equally, secureEFT transactions are executed through our secure processing platform as well, which is fully PCI-DSS certified and compliant. This ensures that the transaction is executed in a fully-secure way.” “Also, keep in mind that secureEFT is done with banks that require authentication of once-off payments by the consumers that initiate them. To that end, it is extremely safe.” De Reuck said that Wirecard cannot comment on the bank’s denouncement of this method, as consumers are still required to authenticate payments made in this way – as with any other EFT method of payment. “We could not make users aware of bank terms and conditions as we would not be privy to such information. This method of processing EFT transactions is used widely in Australia and Europe as a much safer and more secure alternative to card.” “We do not agree that there are risks to the customers. In fact, we believe this is an even safer option for customers to pay for goods and services online.” De Reuck added that Wirecard has strong relationships with all the major banks. “Our objective is to offer secure, convenient payment options to our customers and we believe the current solution offers this,” De Reuck said.  MyBroadband reached out to PayFast for feedback, but the company declined to comment.