One of the most viable strategies for an organisation to create a competitive advantage and reach their full potential is to gain a 360-degree view of the customer. This implies that the organisation has a full view of the customer, be it from a case management or sales perspective. It also gives a company relationship insights, which allows them to better understand their customer and ultimately better serve that customer, said Rynhardt Grobler, Head of Delivery for Mint Group. According to the 2018 State of Global Customer Service Report, companies that focus on high-quality customer service have a competitive edge in the market and see positive impacts on their brand, revenue, and customer loyalty. Many people go to companies for the after-market service, and, for instance, if you buy a car or new software, the add-ons such as warranties and the service quality is what really adds value to the customer. “If you constantly add value to your customers, you constantly add value to your company. It’s not always what you do or what you sell, but it is the experience that goes with it,” said Grobler. According to Grobler, this is what people buy into and companies need to learn how to adapt their customer experience offering so they can really start reaping the rewards. Another aspect that improves the customer experience is having the ability to resolve customer service issues efficiently. According to Grobler, having an omni-channel platform such as Microsoft Dynamics 365 for customer service, where they can voice their complaints or opinions, is an effective way to address common frustrations between the organisation and the customer. By offering an omni-channel experience, organisations can communicate with customers on their platform of preference, be it social media, text, or email – and essentially better serve their customer. According to Grobler, from a customer touch-point perspective, a properly designed omni-channel platform allows organisations to provide consistent service across all channels, regardless of the channel the customer approaches them on or prefers to work with them on. The Microsoft Dynamics 365 tool specialises in case management, knowledge bases, and offers the ability to quickly resolve issues with first-time resolutions, and offers the ability to expose all of these components with a self-service portal. It gives customers or the end-user the visibility into the resolution pulse for these incidents, and offers reporting capabilities. Using a platform like Microsoft Dynamics 365 allows organisations to build a 360-degree view of their customers as it offers them access to a seamless integration of apps that work together in the cloud, and provide invaluable client and marketing insights. With data-driven insights, organisations can start to understand their customers better in terms of behaviour and preference, enabling sales cycle predictions and arming organisations with the necessary Business Intelligence to drive valuable conversations. Furthermore, by combining or connecting an AI solution into Dynamics 365, organisations can start looking at incentive analysis, pre-emptive service, relationship insights, lead scoring, and opportunity scoring that further help build the customer 360 view to forecast the next best action or product recommendation, which in turn will improve the quality of their customer service and ultimately the customer experience. “We have to look after our customers with value-add services, and not by loading them with components, pricing, and deadlines. It’s about how you better enable your customer to add value to their lives, and the moment you get that right, you’ll have that customer for life, and improve the bottom line,” said Grobler. Are your systems geared to know your customer? Download our roadmap to see how we can help you. This article was published in partnership with Mint Group.