Samsung recently released the Galaxy Note 9 in South Africa, a smartphone powerhouse with impressive hardware. When the device was announced at the start of August, the hardware specifications suggested the Note 9 would be very similar to the Galaxy S9+ in terms of performance. The two devices use the same processor and have the same amount of memory. It therefore stood to reason that they would be similar in terms of computing power. Early benchmarks appear to confirm this, with the Note 9 slightly outperforming the Galaxy S9 range on certain tests. While Samsung’s two flagship devices are similar in terms of specifications and performance, however, there are a few key differences. The specifications of the smartphones are shown below. As the specifications shows, the Note 9 is slightly bigger and heavier than the Galaxy S9+, as it boasts a larger screen and larger battery. In our experience, the difference in battery size makes a noticeable difference. Where previously I would have had to charge the Galaxy S9 upon returning to the office from a press briefing after using it for navigation and as a media player, the Note 9 can last the rest of the day without a charge. There is also a distinction in physical design between the two devices. The Galaxy S range is more rounded, and is more comfortable to grip in smaller hands. The Note 9 is wider and has less-rounded edges and corners. Some may prefer the aesthetics of the more rectangular shape of the Note 9, while others may prefer the more rounded edges of the Galaxy S9. The biggest difference between the Note and Galaxy ranges, though, remains the S Pen. Samsung’s S Pen technology has been powered by Wacom since it launched the first Galaxy Note device in 2011. Wacom is the same company which provides the tablet and pen technology digital artists use to draw on computers. With the Note 9, Samsung has introduced several new features to the S Pen – including using Bluetooth low-energy connectivity. Thanks to the switch to Bluetooth, you can now use the pen as a remote control. It can act as a remote for the camera shutter button to take photos without holding the device, pausing and resuming videos, and clicking through slide show presentations. If the S Pen is a feature you need in a smartphone, it alone justifies the purchase of the Note 9 over the Galaxy S9+. The Note 9 also supports up to 512GB of microSD storage, and is available in the US with 512GB of internal storage – meaning users can pack up to 1TB of capacity into their smartphone. Finally, there is the price difference. The pricing of the phones – taken from Cellucity – is detailed below.