Reed Exhibitions Africa has announced that Comic Con Africa, happening on 14-16 September, is sold out. No tickets will be sold at the door. Comic Con Africa will feature comic books, games, arts, movies, pop culture, cosplay, and TV shows – along with actors from these. The gates to the venue at the Kyalami Convention Centre will open at 04:00, but the doors will only open at 09:00. Carol Weaving, MD for Reed Exhibitions Africa, appealed to attendees to be patient. “We’re moving a lot of people in, in a short space of time,” Weaving told MyBroadband. She said attendees will be channeled into parking areas as they arrive. If you are attending, you are asked to follow the instructions of the ushers. People must then have their tickets scanned and receive a visitor’s guide, along with an addendum with information that has changed since the guide was printed. Tickets are transferable, so you can give your ticket to a friend or family member. Weaving also asked that attendees be respectful of the celebrity guests attending Comic Con Africa. “Please don’t invade their personal space,” Weaving said. There are designated areas and times for photos and autographs, so attendees are asked not to hold up guests while they are walking around. Facilities at the event include a dedicated area for gamers attending the LAN, which a general admission ticket will not give you access to. Cosplayers will also have access to a triage area near the MTN Family Zone where they can sit and repair costumes. Weaving said there are ATMs, a wide array of food on sale, and several bars. Avengers star Anthony Mackie will no longer be able to attend the event, the organisers announced today. In a video message, Mackie said that Hurricane Florence had delayed his flight across the Atlantic. He expressed his regret at not being able to attend. Other actors who were previously confirmed that had to cancel before the event include Jason Momoa, Rick Worthy, and Felicia Day. Actors who will be at the event are: