“What makes a retail experience great is being recognised and valued as an individual,” says Van Niekerk. “50 years ago, or perhaps even today in small neighbourhood stores, that could happen because owners, staff and customers all know each other. Massive retail chains killed that personal experience, but technology is starting to bring it back.” It’s already possible for retailers to identify regular customers the moment they walk into the store and send special offers to their phones, or even arrange a personal greeting by the manager. “The only thing that’s stopping your local retailer from doing it tomorrow is the cost—but it doesn’t have to be expensive.” says Van Niekerk “Personalised service to customers these days is dependent on reliable, fast and secure communications,” says van Niekerk. “The dawn of the software-defined wide area networking (SD-WAN) means that standard of communication is now within reach of every retailer, no matter how tight their margins.” Van Niekerk says Metacom’s managed network can deliver anything from financial transaction processing, internet radio, internet video and VOIP telephony to free wi-fi for customers, anywhere. “We can switch and control anything you like — using almost any protocol communicating with any hardware. And we can remotely upgrade and configure our systems anywhere in the world.” Pepkor IT executive Conrad Reinke revealed at the inaugural Metacom Insight event that Metacom provides all networking services to nearly 4,000 group stores across Africa, from Abuja to Phuthaditjhaba. “We serve the cost-conscious market so cost control is very important to us — but so is reliability and that is why Metacom is the right partner for us,” he said. “Metacom is the reason our stores now provide a wide range of value-added services like bill payments, airtime purchases and money transfers, as well as handling peak volumes with ease.” Van Niekerk says Metacom’s new MC6000 Enterprise Router, the latest in a range of network devices the company has designed and manufactured, is a key component of their ability to roll out future services. “Like our previous routers, it can link every remote point into a seamless network regardless of whether connectivity is supplied by fibre, LTE, ADSL, satellite or even radio,” he says. “We know power supply reliability is an issue in many places, so it has dual power supplies; and it has integrated multimedia capability to play in-store internet radio and video, and ample processing capability for edge computing. And you can control many of the advanced features from a smartphone app, even if you’re in Cape Town and the router is in Luanda.” Van Niekerk and Reinke were speaking at the inaugural Metacom Insight event – a series of events that will be hosted by Metacom. The aim of these events is to provide insights into the evolution of technology and industry trends, while simultaneously showcasing the innovative solutions being developed to satisfy market needs. Metacom is a proudly South African company that develops and manufactures routing hardware, software and integrated network systems. They currently operate in 22 countries around the world, with a sizeable footprint in Africa and are uniquely positioned to provide the industry with appropriate solutions for the South African market. The next Metacom Insight event will be held in Johannesburg early in 2019, keep an eye out on MyBroadband to register for the next event. This article was published in partnership with Metacom.