Controlling IoT environments can be challenging, especially for customers with a host of disparate or legacy systems, third-party sensors and components, and little to no way to bring them all together. Companies also need to realise is that IoT only works when it provides valuable insights and actionable information from the environment in which it is deployed. With this in mind, Netshield has developed an end-to-end IoT offering that helps customers build and incorporate IoT into their greenfield or existing business environments. “Working with customers on their IoT deployments, we have noticed that the disparate nature of the sensors, devices, and systems that a customer wants to gather data from can lead to distributions that simply don’t work, or that only provide a fraction of what the client really wants from their IoT,” states Inus Dreckmeyr, Netshield CEO. “Ultimately, clients are left unsatisfied with their IoT deployments which sours the whole experience.” Their series of IoT products and solutions are specifically designed to “talk to each other” through robust integration and adherence to global standards, including communication protocols such as MQTT, AMQP, COAP, and SNMP. The full solution extends from sensors to intelligent gateways and monitoring tools that enable a client to view the full spectrum of their environment in a single or structured dashboard – all of which can be acquired as an end-to-end solution or as components for an existing environment. Using these sensors, gateways, and dashboards, Netshield ensures that clients can secure all of the events and alerts received by sensors, send them to a database, and enable reporting for later analysis and business intelligence. When deployed, a Netshield IoT gateway will relay events to a client’s cloud-based IoT-hub, a private WAN, to a cloud or a local database for future analysis and intelligence. With its multi-layered hierarchical dashboard structure, users can view the full network and drill down layer by layer right down to individual sensors. These dashboards are also interactive, and the views can be manipulated to meet a client’s exact requirements, and have inherent built-in security that supports multi-layer access and role and user parameter settings. “Our Netshield IoT gateways are easy to roll out and deploy, and they integrate with the majority of the major cloud vendors, such as Azure, AWS, SAP, and IBM to ensure data is correctly and accurately recorded from the sensor to the cloud or database. They support all the major IoT communication protocols and will continue to log event data when the primary communication links fail. When a connection is re-established they will update the information they have recorded and the events they have logged back to the database. “We have also developed a management and monitoring dashboard that can provide a full view of the IoT environment and likewise, will alert users to failures of sensors, down to an individual level. Our gateways also support third-party installations and provide a single view of multiple environments via a single dashboard, and they simplify the complexity of IoT and network monitoring and control to a level that anyone can understand,” adds Dreckmeyr. Netshield also assists clients with backup stock, extended warrantees, financing options, and an OEM monitoring services. For a full view of products and solutions within the end-to-end IoT offerings from Netshield, or for more information, contact sales@netshieldsa.com. This article was published in partnership with Netshield.