South Africans are very tech driven and easily embrace new technologies, but according to Hannes van der Walt, Director of The Gadget Shop, access to such products have always been delayed in the country. For this reason, Van Der Walt decided to establish a business that provides a service where customers can purchase the latest tech, on demand. Since establishing the brand in 2004, The Gadget Shop has set out to provide South Africans with the latest and greatest gadgets. This is also what makes The Gadget Shop’s product offering unique, as their business has always evolved around products that are different, hard to find, in demand, and good quality. According to Van Der Walt, The Gadget Shop is also one of the few retailers of their type, operating as an omni-channel retailer with local outlets and an online store. The reason why The Gadget Shop is able to market and sell products in today’s fast and competitive business environment is because of their online presence, which has played a significant part in their success. Nowadays many potential customers prefer to spend their time online, rather than in a physical store. So, for The Gadget Shop, having an online store means they can accommodate a broader range of customers. To further accommodate clients’ needs, The Gadget Shop stays on top of the latest developments and trends in the market through online research, as well as by listening to and analysing customer feedback and requests for new products seen elsewhere in the world. “We also have a strategic partner in the USA whereby we can purchase smaller quantities of products not yet available in SA, and they consolidate and send to us frequently. This allows us to also test the market demand for items, before we consider bulk import,” said Van Der Walt. With the many advancements in technology happening daily, it’s safe to say that there are certain trends in the industry that will stick in South Africa and certain trends that will fade away. The trends Van Der Walt believes will stay and possibly even grow in South Africa are smart lifestyle products, such as home automation devices like the Amazon Echo and Google Home for the smart home. “I believe portable chargers will also stay, but that it will become more advanced, as we are seeing the prevalence of wireless charging,” said Van Der Walt. “Robotics in general will also become a household name, and I’m sure that smarter robotic assistants will be seen in many homes in less than 15 years.” Trends that are already fading include media like music, movies, books and video games in physical form, and the tablet is another dying trend that Van Der Walt believes won’t be around in 10 years’ time. While the Gadget shop is proficient in staying on top of trends, there are naturally challenges any retailer or business will face. Challenges The Gadget Shop face include expensive product imports, red-tape around many electronic items from a compliance point-of-view, involving ICASA, and LOAs (Letter of Authority) for electronic devices fitted with a plug. While Van Der Walt has a strong sense to comply with regulations in the industry, regulations remain challenging, as most of their imported items are from the USA and Europe where they have very stringent tests and regulations these items need to comply with. “We further have to pay licence fees to two separate entities for playing music in our stores, and rent in malls is very expensive and contributes mainly to the high cost of doing business in SA for us,” said Van Der Walt. Despite these challenges, The Gadget Shop still succeeds in remaining competitive. A few tips from Van Der Walt outlines how The Gadget Shop gets it right in such a dynamic and ever-changing business landscape. “With our commitment to sourcing the most innovative products just for you, we have expanded our range to over 4,000 product lines. From computer accessories to business and office toys, our extraordinary gizmos have got you covered whatever your needs are,” said Van Der Walt. Whether you are a tech geek and as passionate about technology as The Gadget Shop is, or simply looking for the best gift ever, you’ll love what they have to offer.