Over the past 18 years, The Digital Experience has been able to offer their customers a remarkable range of audio, visual, and photographic equipment from major brand importers. This week, The Digital Experience is offering amazing deals on the coolest tech, which include the CL Pocket binoculars, and Jabra Elite 65t headphones. Designed by Swarovski Optik, a division of the Swarovski group of companies that manufactures high-quality optical instruments and was founded in 1949, the Swarovski CL Pocket Binoculars offers outstanding optical clarity in a compact, lightweight design, making it easy to take everywhere. With Swarovski optics, CL Pocket ensures unparalleled quality, so you won’t compromise on optical quality or mechanical performance. Thanks to Swarovski’s folding bridge design the CL Pocket Binoculars also fold down into an even more compact size, allowing them to be stored in any pocket. Housed in aluminium casing, they are not only lightweight but also rugged and ergonomically designed to provide a natural feel and high-degree of comfort, even during periods of extended observation. It also includes individually adjustable twist-in eyecups to provide maximum comfort for all users – especially eyeglass wearers. Swarovski’s Swarobright technology, incorporated into the CL Pocket Binoculars, integrates an optical coating to provide maximum colour fidelity across the whole light spectrum. It delivers the latest sharpness and light gathering ability seen on other Swarovski optical products. This alone puts the new CL Pocket binoculars in a class of their own.    Jabra, part of the GN Group – the great northern telegraph company in Denmark established almost 150 years ago – has since its existence offered customers professional headphones, headsets, and hearing aids. By incorporating its knowledge about usage, comfort, and design from the first true wireless innovation, Jabra have reinvented its set of true wireless earbuds, and now as the third generation introduces the Jabra Elite 65t. Engineered for superior sound, it brings together unique technological features that deliver best-in-class quality for voice and music. The new earbuds have a distinct focus on the voice experience, delivering superior audio quality for calls and music without wires. The products come in two versions: one for daily on-the-go use and an ‘Active’ version, made for training and sport. Building on the success of the Jabra Elite Sport – the technically advanced true wireless sports earbuds – the new earbuds are engineered to deliver an even better voice and music experience, while incorporating new design and colour choices. The new earbuds expand the true wireless line-up at Jabra to three products and are part of the family of Elite products announced and on show at CES: The Jabra Elite 65t combines a lightweight design for long-term comfort with up to 15 hours of battery life with the cradle and five hours of listening time in one charge making the earbuds the perfect everyday solution. The Jabra Elite 65t is available in Titanium and Copper, while Elite 65t Active is available in Copper Blue and Copper Red colours.   The Digital Experience also offers a range of other Bluetooth headsets supplied by Circuit City. Whether you opt for a single earbud, wireless over-ear headphones or sports earbuds, users can experience the many benefits of Bluetooth connectivity. From fuss-free usability thanks to their wireless design, to wind noise protection and top-quality sound, Bluetooth headsets make talking and listening to music on the go easy. For more information, visit The Digital Experience’s website. This article was published in partnership with The Digital Experience.