Westcon-Comstor Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA), a leading value-added distributor of cloud, technology and converged communications solutions for the enterprise and SMB markets, has announced its appointment as a distributor for Mitel. According to Rakesh Parbhoo, CEO for Westcon-Comstor Sub Saharan Africa, their collaboration with Mitel is an exciting new strategic partnership. “Our business has always been focused on helping partners develop profitable business through a combination of global supply chain capabilities and channel support across our core technology specialisations. Our services, support and digital distribution expertise will enable partners to succeed in both today’s market and the future as we transition to an increasingly software-driven world with new procurement and consumption models,’’ said Parbhoo. Before deciding which vendors they will represent, Westcon looks at vendor relationships in three broad areas – the product itself, the people, and programmes they offer. “We look at the product in terms of the technology and where it sits, and whether it’s channel friendly. The second thing is the people. In distribution we can have as many contracts and SLAs as we like, but actually in the same way, the relationships between our customers and distribution is very important, as well as the relationship with the vendor,” said David Grant, COO of Westcon International. According to Grant, distribution relationships are a 5-to-10-year investment of time and effort, “so you have to know going in that you can trust the people that you’re working with at the vendor, and that they’ve got a high degree of integrity, they actually understand channels and distribution, and what the reseller community needs”. Looking at Mitel, Westcon is confident that their team is committed to the channel in terms of distribution, and they know Westcon – which is one of the reasons why they are moving to push a lot of their business through Westcon across the whole of Middle East Africa. Through their relationship with Mitel, Westcon customers will be able to add an impressive range of communications and collaboration technologies to their existing offerings. The Mitel network powers more than 2 billion connections every day, and the company assists its clients to better connect, collaborate and take care of their customers, in an increasingly competitive business landscape. “We are powering connections to modernise every organisation we touch, to unleash the power of simple, seamless collaboration, to enable every customer to own their destiny, and secure their future,” said Mitel. Mitel has also been named a leader in the Gartner Magic Quadrant for Unified Communications for the 5th consecutive year, as their full range of business phones and integrated business communication platforms, contact centre technologies for optimised call-centre operation, flexible cloud solutions for public, private, and hybrid provide a single solution for collaboration, mobility, and messaging. “What we’ve seen with Mitel, is actually something that none of the other major vendors have managed to enable effectively, and that is that what they provide is the most complete proposition when it comes to on-premise, hybrid, and cloud, and we are convinced that Mitel is going to be a winning solution for us, and a really good business to invest in,” he concludes. For more information, visit the Westcon-Comstor website. This article was published in partnership with Westcon-Comstor.