Despite the negative sentiment surrounding the economy, it still remains poised for growth, with SMEs standing to benefit. To take advantage of this growth, Digicape, an independent Apple Premium Reseller of Apple Solutions, has partnered with an Authorised Financial Service Provider to offer SMEs an attractive new rental financing option, which enables easier and more affordable access to technology solutions that meet unique business needs. Gaynor MacArthur, Sales Director at Digicape, says that using the right technology can actually save businesses money in the long run. “For example, a PCs purchase price is around 18% of its lifetime cost, while a Macs purchase price is approximately 50%. What this means is that you will generally spend far more money on maintaining your PC than you would a Mac.” The right tech also protects company data. “Small businesses often have more mobile and flexible workforce structures, which can leave the company vulnerable to potential security threats. Apple, with its superior privacy policies, can help small companies alleviate that risk, as it constantly monitors and encrypts data.” “We know that one size doesn’t fit all when it comes to financing the latest technology you need to grow your business. It is with this in mind that we wanted to offer small businesses unique financing plans. We want to provide customisable financing solutions that would assist in streamlining operations and ultimately improve small businesses’ bottom lines,” MacArthur continues. Based upon a credit vetting process, companies can affordably finance the purchase of Macs, iPhones and iPads for business use, with the option of bundling in other elements and services, such as software, hardware and training. A Digicape consultant will assist in structuring the payment terms and will also take care of the finance application process on the company’s behalf, with applications taking around 24 hours to be processed. Another great advantage is that through affordable monthly installments, business cash flow won’t be affected, as there is no large initial cash outlay. For a limited time only and as a special deal, no deposit is required. As part of the promotion, companies can rent products for 36 months with Digicape covering the first month’s installment, with the purchaser in effect only paying 35 months. At the end of the rental period, the company has the option of paying an additional amount to own the product(s), or can upgrade their devices and renew their rental agreement. MacArthur concludes, “The great benefit in renting is that we, as Digicape, take responsibility for making sure your device has the right software and specifications for your needs. We’re also on hand to provide you with ongoing support and a return and repair policy if anything should happen to the device.” For more information on Digicape’s rental finance programme, contact a business consultant on 0860 105 155 or email your query to b2b@digicape.co.za. This article was published in partnership with Digicape.