Samsung’s Galaxy Note 9 launched in South Africa at end of August 2018. The 6.4-inch smartphone has the same Infinity Edge display design sported by the new generation of Galaxy S-series smartphones, and includes an upgraded S Pen with Bluetooth connectivity. Underneath its chassis, the Note 9 is packing some powerful hardware – including the latest-generation Samsung Exynos Octa-core processor and up to 8GB of RAM. Samsung has also shipped the Galaxy Note 9 with the largest-ever battery in a Galaxy smartphone – 4,000mAh. The device also comes in two storage options: 128GB or 512GB, while both models feature support for a 512GB microSD card. The 128GB model of the Samsung Galaxy Note 9 is available in South Africa now for R18,999, with the 512GB model expected to launch soon. The Galaxy Note 9’s impressive battery life and high-speed processor are attractive factors for many buyers, but the device excels in other areas, too. A dual-camera system with the same variable aperture technology introduced in the Galaxy S9+ makes for sharp and vivid photos, and the Note 9’s high-resolution OLED display is ideal for watching high-resolution videos. The Galaxy Note 9 is also water and dust-proof, as indicated by its IP68 rating. The specifications of the Samsung Galaxy Note 9 are listed below. While the Note 9’s hardware is impressive, how does its performance hold up against its competition and previous models? To find out, we sourced benchmark data collected by PassMark to compare the overall system rating for a number of high-end devices, including the Galaxy Note 9. The data is updated on a daily basis and reflects overall performance as measured by the PerformanceTest Mobile benchmark tool. Samsung’s Galaxy Note 9 beats the Galaxy S9 in overall performance, along with a number of other flagship Android smartphones – including the Xiaomi Mi Mix 2S, Google Pixel 2 XL, and Huawei Mate 10 Pro. The results below show that if you are looking for a powerhouse smartphone, the Samsung Galaxy Note 9 should be high up on your list.