When Rain launched its data-only mobile offering, many South Africans were excited to test the product in a dual-SIM smartphone. Rain charges a flat rate of R50 per GB for mobile data with no contracts or bundles, which is substantially cheaper than comparative bundles from other mobile operators. For more data-hungry users, Rain also offers off-peak uncapped data for R250 per month. Rain users are only charged for the data they use, and pay at the end of the month for the usage. The service, however, does not allow users to make voice calls or send SMSs. This offering is therefore ideal for a dual-SIM setup, with one SIM dedicated to voice calls and text messages while the other is used purely for a data connection. To test how this works in the real world, we placed a Vodacom and Rain Mobile SIM in a dual-SIM Huawei P20 and got cracking. The Android OS on the Huawei P20 is very helpful when setting a dual-SIM configuration. Most modern dual-SIM devices only support nano-SIM form factors, which means you may be required to cut or replace your SIM. Additionally, some devices may require you to place the second SIM into the microSD slot, removing the ability to use expanded storage. Once we had inserted the two SIMs and booted the device, it automatically asked which SIM should be used as the mobile data SIM. Navigating to the connectivity settings menu allowed for further refinement of this set-up, letting us select a default calling SIM and toggle options such as inter-SIM call forwarding, and dual-SIM 4G. After this was completed, the smartphone could be used as normal – with all mobile data traffic going through the Rain SIM. The Vodacom SIM then functioned as the voice calling and SMS number.  Once the dual-SIM configuration was set up, we could receive calls on the Vodacom SIM and browse the web on Rain. We conducted speed tests using the Rain Mobile SIM during peak times in the evening and in the morning in Dunkeld West, Johannesburg. The results were in line with our previous tests, which showed decreased download and upload speeds during peak hours – but great speeds during off-peak periods. In the morning, we managed to reach download speeds of over 60Mbps with minimal latency. Heavy usage is therefore restricted during peak hours – 18:00 to 23:00 – on Rain, but many users will be connected to their home Wi-Fi during these hours. A hurdle we encountered, though, was a lack of data coverage in more remote areas. We encountered connectivity issues when streaming music while driving, but this only happened once or twice and was very brief. It is important to note that while Vodacom customers can roam on Rain’s mobile network, Rain SIMs do not roam on Vodacom’s infrastructure and can subsequently experience a difference in coverage levels. Overall, the dual-SIM solution was easy to implement and worked out to be substantially cheaper than a single-SIM setup. Our data bill came to R9.72 for the 200MB we used over the test period – compared to the R59 we would have paid for a 30-day 250MB bundle on Vodacom – and we were able to receive voice calls and SMSs on the Vodacom number without a problem. 