The transmission of Voice over data is not new. Consumers are quite familiar with VoIP offers from Broadband Service providers, as well as the use of applications such as Skype, WhatsApp and many less known like Viper, WeTalk etc… using their mobile devices. These applications are attractive to the consumer because of their low cost. However, in the above voice services the voice quality can be bad, the connection is not guaranteed and, in the case of mobile environment, one cannot fall back to legacy 3G and 2G circuit switched networks Interest in VoLTE networks is on the rise. In contrast to the current popular applications, VoLTE provides the consumer with guaranteed high-quality voice as well as other services such as SMS, Video call with quick call setup times over LTE Data Networks. This is made possible because of superior data speeds with the 4G/LTE networks which have been proven stable for fast data applications such as web browsing, downloading of data and Video streaming. There are many advantages to VoLTE and it is expected that the VoLTE will be next wave of voice communication with 2 Billion connections by 2020. In The USA, AT&T, T-Mobile and Verizon now offer VoLTE and in South Africa we find that mobile operators are evaluating with the view to future implementation. There are some hurdles to overcome like the mobiles need to support VoLTE Although VoLTE networks are more efficient, signalling is more complex than legacy GSM/CDMA solutions and when implementing VoLTE carriers usually opt to migrate with the least negative impact on the consumer. It is during this time many issues occur that can contribute to VoLTE call drops. Coverage gaps often occur due to change in topology or neighbour call interference. Visibility of the SIP messages between the Call Session Control Function (CSCF) and the Telephony Application Server (AS) can provide valuable information about current and future RAN coverage needs Phased upgrade activities can result in mismatched software loads and incompatible handover situation between the eNodeB’s. Examination of future cause messages between the PDN IMS and PCRF will help isolate problematic MME tear down of associated bearers.  The NETSCOUT VoLTE solution enables visibility between the RAN, CORE and IMS domains for the most comprehensive troubleshoot of every VoLTE call hop and handover. The solution pinpoints efficiently areas where additional capacity or signal boost are needed to ensure connectivity and real time monitoring of interoperability issues observed during maintenance windows. Using field proven best practices, in VoLTE deployments NETSCOUT tools have assisted mobile Networks in speeding up the VoLTE implementation using field proven best practices. Adcomtec (Pty) Ltd is a successful value-added telecommunications infrastructure solutions provider with the core expertise in the design, deployment and support of transmission networks that support the core, metro and access space. Established in 2012 this professional South African engineering company credited with Level 4 BEE has now partnered with NETSCOUT to offer these solutions locally to carrier service providers. For more information, please contact Rui Gordino 083 450 6255  or ruig@adcomtec.co.za at Adcomtec (Pty) Ltd. This article was published in partnership with Adcomtec.