Setting up a decent Wi-Fi system for your home can be difficult, especially if the wireless coverage in your house proves problematic. Sub-par hardware and badly-configured wireless repeaters are painful to deal with and result in inconsistent Wi-Fi speeds across your home. This can result in lightning-fast Internet connections producing pathetic connection speeds for end-user devices, particularly the further you move away from your router. The easiest and most effective solution to this problem is a mesh Wi-Fi system, which delivers great wireless signal wherever you are in your house. Mesh Wi-Fi systems consist of multiple hubs which all broadcast the same SSID and seamlessly switch device connections based on signal strength. ASUS is at the forefront of mesh Wi-Fi development and offers a number of products and technologies aimed at improving home Wi-Fi networks. The ASUS Lyra Trio mesh Wi-Fi system is a powerful solution which will ensure that you never have to deal with spotty Wi-Fi coverage again. Consisting of three powerful wireless routers with dual-band Wi-Fi and 3×3 MIMO, the ASUS Lyra Trio offers low latencies and high Internet speeds across all devices. The multiple-stream antenna design allows more simultaneous network traffic, enabling lag-free video streaming and gaming from every corner of your home. Each router in the Lyra Trio mesh Wi-Fi system boasts an impressive coverage area and intelligent signal switching, removing the stress associated with connecting to separate SSIDs and determining which frequency band is faster in each room in your house. With a mesh network like the ASUS Lyra Trio, you can simply connect to a single SSID and be assured that you will always be connected to the fastest connection configuration. The system’s intelligent features don’t stop at dynamic network configuration, however. Using the ASUS Lyra mobile app, Lyra Trio owners can easily manage how devices connect to their home network, as well as add or remove other Lyra routers. Setting up the Lyra Trio mesh network is as easy as connecting the router to your ONT or DSL modem, entering your network details, and pairing other Lyra routers by pressing the Pair button on the underside of their chassis. Whether you’re a power user looking for the best connection speeds possible at all times, or simply don’t want the hassle of maintaining and configuring a network of wireless repeaters, the Lyra Trio is the ultimate home network solution. AiMesh is a software-based system that delivers extremely fast network speeds without the hassle of setting up wireless repeaters and multiple SSIDs. If you have an existing ASUS router and don’t want to buy a whole new mesh Wi-Fi system, this technology allows you to build your own mesh network. Simply install another compatible ASUS router, ensure that the firmware on both devices is updated, and set up AiMesh on the primary router connected to your modem or ONT. Using AiMesh enables users to enjoy the features and performance of ASUS’s traditional dual-band and tri-band routers, and combine them with the convenience of a mesh Wi-Fi system. This unique technology sets a new standard for mesh Wi-Fi and gives consumers the freedom to mix different Wi-Fi routers to create a powerful mesh network. With AiMesh, all routers can still use all of their own features – with easy central control of all settings from the ASUS Router App or the web UI. Great features like AiProtection, QoS and Parental Controls will work across the entire network, as well as VPN and Game Boost.  After configuring your routers to function as an AiMesh network, you will be able to connect to a single SSID which will dynamically select the best network configuration for your end-user devices – depending on their location in your home. This is an easy and cost-effective way to boost your home Wi-Fi network while maintaining ease-of-use and accessibility. To find out more about the ASUS Lyra Trio or ASUS’s AiMesh technology, visit: https://www.asus.com/za/Networking/Lyra-Trio/, and https://www.asus.com/za/AiMesh/. ASUS Networking products are proudly distributed by Mustek Ltd. For more information, please contact: Emy Li, ASUS Networking Product Manager: This article was published in partnership with ASUS.