Constant change due to technological advances and the rapid pace of innovation requires constant learning. In conjunction with this, companies demand skilled professionals with the knowledge and qualifications to help the company evolve alongside a digital-driven world. According to Stats SA, more than 50,000 jobs have been created in South Africa in the first half of 2018, while the rate of unemployment in South Africa has reached 27.2% in the second quarter of 2018 – up from 26.7% in the previous period (as according to Trading Economics). To put the unemployment rate in perspective, the number of unemployed persons in South Africa went up by 102,000 to 6.08 million, from 5.98 million in the first quarter of the year. Considering these statistics, the already-high demand for top-level professionals has increased. In light of this, Pearson – the learning company that offers effective, personalised teaching and learning solutions at the institutional, programme, and student level – has launched their Pearson Professional and Pearson Institute Online platforms, offering online digital education services. Through these platforms, Pearson aims to improve employability by offering professionals and aspiring professionals easier access to higher-level education. Pearson Professional offers blended and online programmes for professionals looking to upskill themselves and take the next step in their career. By partnering with top Institutions, it provides students with globally-recognised, industry-relevant programmes of study. With their blended model called Engage. Network. Progress., learners have access to flexible online courses with dedicated student advisor support and interaction to help programme completion and career progression. The blended model provides meaningful engagement through online and blended curriculum to the students’ peers and instructors. Additionally, Pearson professional provides a career progression series that is blended with outstanding content from edX’s top university partner programmes to give learners the competencies most in demand by employers. Upon completion of the Pearson Professional programmes, learners will earn a digital badge that can be shared on LinkedIn, through email, or a variety of other prominent social media platforms. The focus is on learning that is engaging and provides a network to provide the education necessary for career advancement. As part of Pearson Institute of Higher Education (PIHE), Pearson Institute Online offers part-time qualifications supported by online learning. Part-time qualifications offered by Pearson through the Online Learning Environment are flexible as they adapt to various schedules (like studying while working) and are designed to fast track career progress. By studying through Pearson Institute Online, learners will benefit from personalised support in a virtual learning environment – where staff can identify and focus on each individual’s specific needs – as well as other support programmes that will help ensure their academic success. Valuing both academic qualifications and real-world experience, Pearson offers practical application with hands-on academic staff that expertly bring theoretical information to life in the classroom. “Our unique approach to learning encourages critical, creative, and strategic thinking and goes beyond theoretical knowledge, paving the way for success and preparing each student for the fast-changing working world,” said Ebrahim Matthews, MD: Pearson South Africa. “Our aim is to transform lives through learning and produce employable graduates who are prepared for all aspects of the modern workplace,” said Christopher Bothma, Director: Business Development. To this end, PIHE students benefit from diverse academic ideas and a range of career-focused qualifications and programmes that are flexible enough to meet their various needs and schedules. Using these platforms, students and professionals alike have access to courses anywhere, anytime, online. Pearson is also giving away 5 quality Nespresso coffee machines to 5 lucky MyBroadband readers in their #DaretoLearn competition. To enter: Competition ends Wednesday, 21 November 2018 and standard competition rules apply. For more information, visit the Pearson Professional website. This article was published in partnership with Pearson.