Telkom recently launched an uncapped LTE contract promotion, offering two 24-month packages to customers. A “business hours” package gave subscribers uncapped data between midnight and 17:00 every day for R599 per month. An all-hours uncapped contract was also available for R899 per month. This promotion follows the commercial launch of Rain’s mobile services in June, where it offers an off-peak uncapped package for R250 per month. As with many uncapped services, though, these packages are governed by fair use policies. The fair use policies of uncapped products offered by MTN, Rain, and Telkom are detailed below. MTN has various uncapped data offerings available, including ad-hoc bundles, and post-paid contracts and top-up plans. Two representative examples of these offerings are its one-day uncapped bundle, and Sky Supreme post-paid tariff plan. The MTN One Day Uncapped bundle is R40, is valid for one day, and has a fair usage threshold of 150MB. Once you reach the threshold, your connection is throttled to 128kbps. MTN Sky Supreme has a SIM-only price of R1,999 per month and a fair usage limit for data of 25GB per month. When you hit the threshold, your speeds are throttled to 384kbps. SmartBroadband Uncapped In selected areas, Telkom offers a two-year uncapped SmartBroadband package for R799 per month, which promises download speeds of up to 90Mbps and uploads of up to 25Mbps. Telkom’s website only provides a vague acceptable use policy, stating that it reserves the right to apply restrictions on an uncapped account if a customer’s behaviour is determined to be affecting the user experience of others. “Such restrictions include but are not limited to throttling a customer’s throughput speeds to an appropriate proportion of the actual port speed and/or shaping a customer’s bandwidth,” Telkom said. Telkom’s last public disclosure about the thresholds for its uncapped LTE product stated: Telkom also offers uncapped data in its FreeMe range of smartphone contracts, available on both the standard FreeMe packages and FreeMe Family. The company makes it clear in its terms and conditions that this is not intended for downloading. “All data traffic on FreeMe Unlimited that directs toward peer-to-peer sites or uses torrent applications will automatically be throttled to 128kbps upload and 128kbps download,” it states. It further imposes an overall fair usage threshold of 25GB per month. “The speed shall be throttled to 128kbps if a subscriber reaches a data usage soft cap of 25GB before the end of the month.” The aforementioned promotional uncapped LTE contracts offer uncapped usage to customers. One allows unlimited data during business hours for R599 per month, and the other is an all-hours offering for R899 per month. The following fair use policy applies: Rain launched its first mobile products on 6 June 2018, offering data priced at 5c per megabyte – and an off-peak unlimited product for R250 per month. Its terms and conditions do not spell out specific thresholds or maximum speeds, however subscribers have reported that Rain is throttling speeds on its network heavily during peak times. MyBroadband’s testing confirmed this. Between 18:00 and 23:00 daily – the peak times not covered by its unlimited data add-on—Rain can throttle speeds on its network to around 3Mbps.