Telkom has announced that it will offer voluntary separation and voluntary early retirement packages to Corporate, Openserve, Consumer and Small Business staff members. Telkom said the retrenchments can be attributed to the fact that it has subsidised the South African mobile industry by about R70 billion through asymmetric call termination rates. “We have implemented multiple initiatives to ensure its continued competitiveness in this context. A primary concern has been to safeguard jobs from market and economic pressures,” it said. These voluntary separation packages follow similar initiatives over the last few years which saw Telkom shedding thousands of jobs. One of the main reasons for the job cuts is a lack of revenue growth which Telkom blamed on a “tough economic environment, political uncertainty, and intense competition”. While it makes sense for Telkom to reduce its head count and become more efficient, it runs the risk of a death spiral if it loses the most productive employees. The importance of these highly-productive employees in a company is often underestimated, and is illustrated by this generalised version Price’s Law: The square root of the number of employees in a company do 50% of the work. If this law is even moderately accurate in Telkom’s case, it means that less than 140 people at Telkom do around half of the productive work. To identify and retain these core staff members is crucial in any staff-reduction process, and it is not clear if Telkom has measures in place to do this. To sort through thousands of employees and, on merit, rank them is a very difficult and time-consuming task. With the added pressure from unions about job cuts, it is much easier and politically safe to design a “fair” process which will cause the least friction. This, unfortunately, can result of the most competent staff members leaving the company. The reason is simple – the top employees are in demand and will often leave a struggling company for one where they have more growth opportunities. The loss of skills can then impact the company’s growth further, creating the need for further job cuts. This “death spiral” can be very difficult to stop, even by the most competent executive team. Over the last year, Telkom has lost many of its top executives, including its consumer CEO Attila Vitai, enterprise CEO Johann Henning, and BCX CEO Ian Russell. Other noteworthy departures include CIO Len de Villiers, Trudon CEO Thabo Seopa, and CFO Deon Fredericks. In fact, Telkom replaced most of its top exco members and has built a new management team. To bring in a new management team when a company struggles is not strange, but a company must be certain that they do not lose core employees in the process. In Telkom’s case, its financial performance for this year will show whether it was able to retain its core employees as part of its staff reduction initiatives. Revenue growth is sorely needed for Telkom to avoid a “death spiral” and show that it did not fall victim to losing its most valuable employees.