The theft of lead acid batteries needed to power cell tower equipment is a common problem affecting carriers for many years, resulting in millions of Rand in losses per annum and disrupted service to consumers. The problem is a global one and has even brought some Carriers to their knees as they have exhausted all avenues to combat this growing plague. One of the worst affected regions is Africa and specifically South Africa, with a battery theft rate of up to 30% in some areas. While many of the towers are secured and have alarms in place, thieves can often easily bypass these security measures. Frost and Sullivan analyst, Gautham Gnanaiothi, says; “Theft of batteries has become one of the main challenges facing most of the telecom operators who use lead acid batteries.” Ian Gravett, who works for CJA, a sub-contractor for BTS installation and maintenance in South Africa, says said; “Around 80% of our sites have experienced multiple thefts of lead acid batteries during their life cycle.” MTN’s Steffans Potgieter says that there is a black market demand that drives the ongoing problem. “There’s a domestic use for the 12 V batteries whereby people can power their TVs, lights and radios. Also, they sell the lead as scrap metal.”  For MTN South Africa the answer was eliminating the re-sale attractiveness by adopting a lithium-ion battery strategy. They replaced lead acid batteries with Huawei’s BoostLi, radically reducing theft. With its output of 48V, BoostLi cannot be used like the  standard 12 V required to power household appliances. The BoostLi technology has no lead content therefore has no resale value. Furthermore, the Battery Management System has an intelligent software lock, which disconnects the battery output if it is moved from the site. It can only be reactivated with specific NetEco Licenses, which is only available to the Carrier. By the end of 2017, Huawei has already deployed nearly 70,000 sets of BoostLi for Carriers all around the world, covering 87 countries and regions around the world. Features such as flexible mixing with existing lead acid, protect Carrier’s investment during site growth; BoostLi also allows for smooth evolution into the 5G era. Conventional battery service life has also been significantly enhanced. The first batch of Huawei’s smart lithium batteries have been running for 7 years with capacity retention above 80%. “We are committed to providing our customer with simpler, more reliable and smarter power solutions,” says Tao Hongming, President for Huawei Network Energy Product Line. <span data-mce-type="bookmark" style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;" class="mce_SELRES_start">﻿</span> This article was published in partnership with Huawei.