An epic year of exclusive Vodacom Red rewards will end with an adrenalin-fuelled adventure as Vodacom’s most loyal clients engage in everything from low range to high fives on the ultimate 4×4 experience. The Vodacom Red 4×4 Experience from 2-4 November is for all those who take the road less travelled, who see dirt roads as opportunities for adventure and who believe a muddy pool is nature’s car wash. This is the chance to get behind the wheel of some of the best 4x4s in South Africa and join a few of the most powerful Vodacom Bulls rugby players on a once-in-a-lifetime experience that will test skills and teach new ones, all supercharged with a touch of Vodacom Red. Vodacom Red clients need to simply register at vodacom.co.za/redrewards to stand a chance to win a place on the ultimate offroad adventure with their favourite Vodacom Bulls players.  The Vodacom Red 4×4 Experience wraps up what has been a record year of rewards for Vodacom Red clients in 2018. From an exclusive Father and Son Sleepout on the main field at Loftus Versfeld where they spent time with former Vodacom Bulls and Springbok star Pierre Spies as well as celebrities Bobby van Jaarsveld and Thapelo Mokoena to a spot on the Vodacom Bulls Red tour to Christchurch to first watch the Vodacom Bulls play the Crusaders, and then enjoy a spectacular sightseeing tour of Sydney. There was a Vodacom Red experience for every taste in 2018, with nature lovers being treated to a rare encounter with the African Wild Dogs. They joined Vodacom Bulls players Trevor Nyakane and Lood de Jager in the Kruger National Park where they helped track and collar these endangered animals. Fishing fans were treated to the tiger fishing experience of a lifetime where they joined Vodacom Bulls captain Burger Odendaal and Jaco Visagie on a memorable trip to the Zambezi to catch one of Africa’s most legendary fish. And the Vodacom Red Family Day at Loftus Versfeld was an exclusive opportunity to spend a day with the #BullsFamily as well as the families of players and various celebrities. These once-in-a-lifetime bucket list experiences have proved Vodacom Red to be truly for those who expect more and if you think 2019 can’t get any better, Challenge Accepted. This article was published in partnership with Vodacom.