Research by the SA Institute of Race Relations shows that the ANC’s support base could drop by as much as 10% in next year’s elections. A report in the City Press, based on this research, said the EFF is polling at 13%, up from 6% it received in the 2014 national elections. The research, which was conducted between August and September this year, further showed that the ANC’s support dropped from 62% to 52%. The DA, which performed well in the 2016 municipal elections, only showed marginal growth from 22% in the 2014 elections to 23% now. Gareth van Onselen, head of politics and governance at the SA Institute of Race Relations, described the findings as “both fascinating and disturbing”. He said the EFF’s gain and the ANC’s decline shows the ANC’s strategy to adopt certain EFF policies, like land expropriation without compensation, is backfiring spectacularly. To prepare for the 2019 national elections, the DA has launched its One South Africa for All campaign. The DA said “there have been too many empty promises, crime is rising, corruption is oppressing us and there is no fair access to jobs”. DA leader Mmusi Maimane said his vision is for South Africans from all walks of life coming together because they want change. “We know that despite our differences, there is more that brings us together than keeps us apart,” he said. The EFF, meanwhile, is continuing its white monopoly capital narrative, promising to fight to restore the dignity of black people. “A war is coming; this country is run by Pravin and Pravin is run by the Stellenbosch Mafias,” EFF leader Julius Malema said. “Those people are more dangerous than Zuma. And they control senior Indian journalists and senior white journalists.” He added that “the enemy of our revolution is not white people, the enemy is white monopoly capital”. He further called for a united party, with a focus on children who go to schools without shoes, women who have no access to sanitary towels, and the plight of farm workers and security guards.