A New York real estate agent recently filed a lawsuit against Samsung, claiming her Galaxy Note 9 had spontaneously ignited in her purse. In the lawsuit, she claimed she was using her Note 9 when it started to get uncomfortably hot. She placed it in her purse, but soon noticed smoke coming from the pouch. She said she emptied the purse, but a fire had started. An onlooker rushed over, picked up the Note 9 with a cloth, and threw it away. News of the incident spread quickly, thanks to the battery problems the Galaxy Note 7 experienced two years ago. In response to questions from MyBroadband, a Samsung spokesperson said the company is investigating the issue. “Samsung takes customer safety very seriously and we stand behind the quality of the millions of Galaxy devices in use,” Samsung said. “We have not received any reports of similar incidents involving a Galaxy Note 9 device and we are investigating the matter.” Consumers have a heightened awareness of battery problems with Samsung’s Galaxy Note series following a major recall of the company’s Note 7 smartphone. Samsung’s Galaxy Note 7 device was prone to exploding due to a combination of battery manufacturing faults, resulting in the company recalling the device. The problem became so bad that the smartphone company eventually discontinued the device, and it was banned from flights across the world. The company worked hard to resurrect its Note lineup with the Note 8, which remained a popular smartphone and did not experience the same issues as the Galaxy Note 7. With its Galaxy Note 9, Samsung delivered a massive increase in the battery size – showing renewed faith in the engineering of its smartphones. While the Note 7 had a 3,500mAh battery, the Note 8 featured a more conservative 3,300mAh capacity following the issues which plagued the previous generation. The Galaxy Note 9 sports an impressive 4,000mAh battery, much higher than previous iterations. Following the Note 7 recall, Samsung overhauled the manufacturing process for its smartphones and their battery placement, aiming to eliminate any flaws. The company even changed its battery provider from ATL following the issues with the Galaxy Note 7. This single reported fire may cause some users to worry about the safety of Samsung’s batteries, but there is little cause for concern at the moment. There has been only a single report of this occurring, and the lawsuit is currently unresolved – which means there is information which is not yet confirmed.