NSN provide a wide variety of telecoms solutions from PABX hosted, cloud and data services. For details of the partner program follow this link: http://nsn.co/za/why-nsn/ We really want to partner with businesses that have a great relationship with their customer base and who are keen to earn additional revenue streams with no extra fuss or risk. Our partners operate in a wide variety of industries and as long as you have existing customers becoming an NSN partner will work for you!  The Why NSN campaign really tells the NSN story as never before. In the space of a short video you learn the real benefits of being an NSN partner and ultimately why we are the natural choice for channel partners across the SA marketplace. Nick Shraga, MD at NSN: “This is a really exciting time to join NSN as a partner, we are growing at a super-fast rate across SA and are in a position to offer partners a new level of support to ensure growth and ultimately increase wallet share. We are working hard to always keep our product suite at the front of new product developments to ensure we stay competitive in the market place. We aggregate SA-wide services onto one platform to give partners the flexibility to offer bespoke solutions at competitive rates” Our Affinity Partner programme is proven to be successful, paying over R1,000,000 in commission to the existing partner base and offering up to 50% commission for the life of the partner. Our current partners have thrived from the new revenue stream and new product suite they can activity sell into their existing customer base. Our customer service team are on hand to offer field sales support Nick Shraga:” Our partner support teams really enable our partners to be success. If product knowledge is something that concerns you, we have a team to support you even in the field. It is not un-common for our sales team to go to consultations with our partners. Like-wise our partners are often happy to hand a new customer over completely to us, as they still benefit from the commission rates and NSN are able to sign the deal without the partner needing to be involved.” This is really a unique opportunity to join NSN at a time of growth across South Africa. So, if you are looking to increase your revenues and benefit from first class telecoms solutions join us and spread the NSN promise across South Africa! If you wish to find out more, please email salesgrp@nsn.co or call on 010 880 2081. Joining as a NSN partner takes minutes, and you can have your first customer signed up just as quickly. This article was published in partnership with New Star Networks.