NetSuite believes that SMEs need to run their businesses more effectively, so they can stimulate growth and get on with what they’re good at. Business owners spend too much time on lesser tasks, such as inventory, balances, and shipments – instead of focusing on the most critical elements of growth. Speed, flexibility, and the ability to change are the hallmarks of the best-run companies, and the only way to achieve and leverage these hallmarks in a digital world is to implement the right business systems. By studying high-growth companies across every industry in every country for close to 20 years, NetSuite has been able to identify and provide solutions to the most common barriers that hinder business growth. Many companies run their operations using standalone financial systems, which are designed to automate a limited set of core accounting functions. As a result, SMEs must adapt their processes to fit the application, which then restrains transaction speed and volume, and ultimately impedes growth. Some may argue that disparate systems can be engineered to handle the load, but quick-fixes to a substandard system are cost-ineffective and time-consuming. Instead, organisations should couple core finance and accounting functions in a suite that can handle stronger financial controls to increase financial efficiency while reducing back-office costs. Previously, companies had to wait until the end of the month to get the data they needed – but times have changed, and today companies need systems that will provide data analytics instantaneously. Many companies, however, still sit with outdated solutions providing inaccurate data. By implementing a unified solution that will give them access to transparent, real-time performance data, and save time and money, organisations can set themselves up for success. As tax laws and compliance, year-end audits, reporting, and other government regulations overburden finance teams, finance leaders are often compelled to seek out additional systems to help them get by. While this may seem like a reasonable strategy, these subsequent applications often lack integration with each other, creating data inconsistencies or incorrect tax filings. With a single cloud-based suite that automates and incorporates regulations for all departments, organisations are ensured that all regulations are accounted for. Acquiring new customers is critical for SMEs that want to scale, and retaining customers is key for steady revenue growth. However, NetSuite’s findings show that many businesses still use outdated, disconnected and dirty data on existing customers, which makes it difficult to retain and find new customers. For businesses with data spread across sales spreadsheets, standalone financial systems and other applications, there is no way to know which data is most current, accurate and reliable. Abandonment figures rise as potential customers look to other companies that understand their entire experience across order history, billing and customer service. What the sales force needs is a unified, cloud-based business software suite that reports on all business data from a single common data repository and gives a concise overview of key information of potential and current clients. In many businesses, the workforce is detached from the core business system. Not only does this create barriers, but also increases manual processes, lowers engagement, and weakens overall processes. Adding a unified human resources tool into the core infrastructure will remove departmental barriers and eliminate repetitive and manual processes. NetSuite’s ERP system is all-encompassing, flexible and agile. It encompasses cloud-based financials, CRM, ecommerce, HR and business intelligence functionalities, enabling thousands of growing SMEs across the world to position themselves for success. It offers 360-degree, real-time visibility across customer and financial data, complete control over core HR processes, and reports more accurately by running functions simultaneously in one suite. To see how NetSuite enabled local company Bramhope to transform their business, watch the video below. Learn more on the NetSuite website or email NetSuiteZA@netsuite.com.  This article was published in partnership with NetSuite.