Huawei recently unveiled its Mate 20 Lite smartphone in South Africa, which will be available to consumers from 5 October 2018. The device is an attractive purchase for those looking for high-end features but aren’t willing to pay the ever-increasing price of a “flagship” device. It is not the only handset in this bracket, however, with Samsung’s Galaxy A8 2018 also offering great performance at a mid-range price point. Both devices were also launched this year, making them ideal for users who want the latest technology and software. To see how they stack up against each other, we compared the specifications, features, and pricing of the Huawei Mate 20 Lite and the Samsung Galaxy A8 2018. When it comes to hardware, both devices feature mid-range processors from their respective chipset manufacturers. The HiSilicon Kirin 710 and Exynos 7885 Octa are both octa-core processors which prioritise efficiency over brute power, offering greater value than their flagship counterparts at the cost of maximum performance. However, many other hardware features on the devices could easily have been sported by recent flagships, such as their 4GB-6GB of RAM and large storage capacities of 32GB and 64GB. Both devices boast dual front-facing cameras, although the Huawei Mate 20 Lite takes this one step further by fitting a total of four lenses on the device – two on the front and two on the back. Samsung’s Galaxy A8 2018 and Huawei’s Mate 20 Lite both have similar screen resolutions, too. The Huawei’s display is a lot bigger, but the Samsung device sports an AMOLED display panel – a technology usually only seen on more expensive smartphones. The specifications of the devices are below. It is important to note that only the 32GB version of the Galaxy A8 is available in South Africa. However, it is subsequently cheaper than the Huawei, offering high-end hardware such as an InfinityEdge AMOLED display and dual front-facing cameras for a more affordable price. If battery life is important to you, you may opt to select the Huawei Mate 20 Lite due to its substantially-larger battery capacity of 3,650mAh. However, if you are an adventurer and regularly find your smartphone in perilous environments, you will prefer the Samsung for its IP68 durability rating. Both smartphones run their own manufacturer-specific versions of Android 8, so only expect an upgrade to Android 9 to happen later down the line. Depending on your previous devices and visual preference, one of the operating systems may be more attractive than the other – but both offer similar functionality. As far as unique features go, Samsung and Huawei recently launched their own technologies to pull at different sectors of the market. If you are into mobile gaming, you may be better off choosing the Mate 20 Lite due to the manufacturer’s GPU Turbo technology. This delivers a massive boost in gaming performance and should be able to power most of your titles at maxed-out graphics with little effort. However, the Samsung Galaxy A8 has its own advantages, such as Samsung Pay. This means that South Africans who buy this smartphone will be able to take advantage of the widely-supported and easy-to-use Samsung Pay app if they are a Standard Bank or Absa client. What is common to both devices is that users can access powerful hardware and features without having to pay Android flagship prices. 