The Experience Micro Focus Universe 2018 in partnership with ITWeb recently took place at the Inanda Club in Johannesburg, and offered delegates the opportunity to experience first-hand how their broad product portfolio addresses tough problems in this hybrid IT world. The first regional-focused Micro Focus customer conference offered delegates tips and business insight from real customers as well as Micro Focus experts, through in-depth breakout sessions and product demonstrations. It also offered delegates the opportunity to win Micro Focus product vouchers to the value of $30,000. Dr Adriana Marais – theoretical physicist, head of innovation at SAP Africa, and aspiring extra-terrestrial – delivered an exciting and awe-inspiring keynote address, discussing the developments in science and technology, the expansion of our society beyond this planet, and the technology required to sustain terrestrial life on Mars and the various projects aiming to send crewed missions there. In a following presentation, Chris Livesey, SVP and GM, Application Modernisation and Connectivity Solutions at Micro Focus discussed the Micro Focus vision, strategy and innovations in DevOps, security and risk management, and how organisations can leverage new technology by building on what they already have. Micro Focus believes that the most important thing they can do is to help their partners innovate faster, and according to Livesey, building on what they already have is the fastest way for organisations to leverage new technologies. Existing applications don’t need to be superseded or replaced, but can instead be modernised, integrated and extended. As most companies now seek to leverage cloud, mobile and analytics, Micro Focus has an approach and a product portfolio that can get them there quicker, without the cost and risk of throwing everything away and starting again. “Companies are asking us for assistance in the space of digital, and IT and delivery transformation, as they are seeing that pursuing renovation of their IT landscape instead of pursuing a completely new solution is more cost-effective, and efficient,” said Livesey. Being a leader in the software industry, Micro Focus is uniquely positioned to help customers maximise existing software investments and embrace innovation in a world of hybrid IT, from mainframe to mobile to cloud. This focus allows the company to deliver on its mission to put customers at the centre of innovation and deliver high-quality, enterprise-grade scalable software that its teams can be proud of. Micro Focus helps customers bridge the old and the new by maximising the ROI on existing software investments and enabling innovation in the new hybrid model for enterprise IT. For more information, visit the Micro Focus website. This article was published in partnership with Micro Focus.