Join Metacom – specialists in providing high-quality managed Software Defined Wide Area Network (SD-WAN) services to customers across various industries – and retail and technology industry experts at the inaugural Metacom Insight event taking place on Friday, 14 September 2018 at the Century City Conference Centre in Cape Town. The first Metacom Insight event will focus on The Store of the Future – a thought-provoking morning with Réan Van Niekerk, Metacom’s CEO who will share his vision and insights while exploring the tremendous advantages that technology can bring to the success of any organisation. Van Niekerk will be joined by keynote speaker Steven Ambrose, a seasoned and experienced journalist, writer, reviewer, commentator and analyst. Steven specialises in new technology, with a particular interest in the online and telecommunications space, backed by solid, objective and accurate research-based analysis of trends. His key interests include trends in technology that will change our lives with impact on business and new media. Ambrose specialises in advising businesses on technology lead strategies and systems. A presentation by one of South Africa’s most respected and successful retailers will conclude with a live demonstration of Metacom’s MC6000 Enterprise Router – one of the most advanced routers of its kind.  “At Metacom, innovation and technology is at the heart of what we do. We want to share this insight with the broader community and there is no better way than making an event of it!” – Réan Van Niekerk, CEO of Metacom Metacom is a proudly South African company that develops routing hardware, software and integrated systems, currently operating in 22 countries around the world, with a sizeable footprint in Africa. Due to this Metacom is uniquely positioned to provide the industry with appropriate solutions for the South African market. With the Metacom Insight events the aim is to provide insights into technological evolution and industry trends, while simultaneously showcasing the unique solutions that are being developed to satisfy market needs. At the first Metacom Insight event, the Metacom team will showcase the evolution of their SD-WAN services together with Metacom’s latest routing equipment and integrated retail solution, demonstrating how this technology can be used practically in The Store of the Future. “It’s time to showcase our solution, share ideas and network with like-minded individuals that will move your business forward,” says Van Niekerk. Metacom has opened up a few seats to the event for Cape Town-based MyBroadband readers on a first come first served basis. However, space is very limited, so please email Leigh, leigh.miller@metacom.net before Friday, 07 September 2018. Metacom Insight will be coming to Joburg before the end of 2018. For more information, visit the Metacom website. This article was published in partnership with Metacom.