Established by Pinnacle – a leading ICT distribution company in South Africa – in 1994, Proline provides affordable, high-quality, and high-performance devices with integrated Microsoft solutions to the Southern African market. Initially started as a desktop manufacturing brand, Proline locally produced and manufactured complete and customised desktop PC solutions in their local production facility. Soon after, Proline expanded their product range to include various new product categories in accordance with local demand. Today, Proline boasts the largest local product range using the latest international technology and quality standards. Their product range is manufactured using a wealth of knowledge and experience accumulated over many years within the IT industry. Their core product range is made up of traditional desktop computers, notebooks, all-in-ones, mini PCs, monitors, smartphones and Android-based tablets, online UPSs, as well as interactive UPSs, and peripherals. Proline also has six fully-stocked branches with their core product range in South Africa, as well as one in Namibia, and one in Botswana. “This enables us to have stock readily available for our partners, so they can provide and deliver custom-built solutions in a short lead time, and is a massive competitive advantage against other Tier-1 brands where the lead time is often 6-8 weeks for custom-built solutions,” said Anandi Hartzenberg, Proline Brand Executive. With their deep understanding of the local market, Proline stands out above their competitors. Proline also focuses on enabling the youth of Southern Africa to learn and educate themselves by constantly working on new and innovative technology solutions which they supply to the basic education sector. “This is what really drives our passion,” said Hartzenberg. Their passion for education also led to the launch of Proline’s smartphone range, which is designed to fit the needs of learners and allows them to afford high-quality devices. Over the past few years, Proline has successfully deployed several rollouts into the education sector, which includes the 30,000 GDP tablet rollout, as well as the 14,000 mini PC rollout to the Western Cape Education Department. Additionally, Proline has a strong focus on tertiary education institutions, traditional government departments, corporate institutions, retail, and traditional channels to small and medium enterprises. “We are also extremely proud to be a licenced Microsoft OEM partner, and Proline wholeheartedly recommends Windows and Microsoft Office software,” said Hartzenberg. To find out more, visit the Proline website, and watch the video below.  This article was published in partnership with Proline.