In this digital era, we are all too familiar with Google as we turn to them if we are looking for anything really – anything from products, services, research, general content, tips, how to guides etc. More than 97% of South African’s use Google daily, most of which find what they are looking for on Google’s page 1. If your website is not listed on page 1 of Google for your key products and services then you are loosing out on lots of business and exposure. Merely having a website (without any marketing) is like a ‘drop in the ocean’ as there are approximately 20,000 times more websites than actual human beings (about a hundred trillion websites). So if one where to look for a service or product that you offer they would most probably find your competitors website. Search Engine Optimisation (SEO) provides the ability to rank a website on the first page of a search engine (Google), thus increasing your website visibility. The reason why it’s fundamental for any digital or online asset to rank on the first page is because anyone looking for anything starts their journey on the first page of a search engine. Just by looking at your own behaviour when typing in specific keywords that pertain to certain products or services, it’s evident that people rarely visit the second, third, fourth, or twentieth page. By ranking on the first page, businesses can get a lot of traffic, many leads, and many sales, but besides boosting sales it’s also a very cost-effective solution, as it is highly targeted and provides higher conversion rates as opposed to other mediums. Fast Forward Marketing, one of the leading online marketing agencies in South Africa, offers a unique range of world-class digital marketing services – including SEO services – to assist SMME’s, corporate and enterprise businesses in marketing their products and services online. Fast Forward Marketing follows a holistic approach encompassing an analysis of the various personas and user behaviour on various search engines and who engages using different devices – all while attracting them to your website in efforts to convert these users into customers. The first step they take is to conduct an in-depth analysis of your website and find the issues that prohibit search engines from indexing or crawling the website. The second step is to conduct a search engine audit on your industry, your competitors and products. They analyse what people are searching for that pertain to your products and services. They extract data from Google which showcases the most popular keywords used month on month.  “Our job is to analyse each one of your competitors to each of those keywords – because the more we know about your competitors, the more we know about the strategies they’re using, and the more you know how to out-track them,” said Yoray Narainpersad, MD of Fast Forward Marketing. After about a month or two of the strategy being implemented, your business should be ranking for a few keywords already. According to Narainpersad, the most prominent search engine in South Africa is Google, and the objective is to rank any business website on the first page or the Top 10 results on Google. “SEO, is not an exact science as Google changes their ranking algorithm a few times a month and companies need to know that ranking a website takes a long time,” said Narainpersad. “The good news is that we’ve been working on Google and other search engines for about 16 years, and we know that certain SEO elements will change very slightly, hence we can guarantee to rank most websites within a month – which is pretty impressive given Google’s disclaimer, which stipulates that it takes between 3-6 months for Google to come to your website, index, crawl, and then allocate a rank.” Fast Forward Marketing’s search engine optimisation include core services, such as organic search, on-page SEO, link building, Local SEO, keyword research, strategy and monthly SEO report. “Our SEO strategies will get your website a high-ranking placement in Google search results, and we’ll provide a full SEO keyword ranking report as well as monthly reports showing the progress. Our customer-focused team will improve your traffic flow and increase leads and sales for your Internet-based operations.” For more information on SEO or  visit the Fast Forward Marketing website. This article was published in partnership with Fast Forward Marketing.