IFA 2018 kicked off in Germany last week and many of the world’s biggest technology companies took the opportunity to show off their new products. From Huawei’s new Kirin 980 smartphone chipset to a number of Alexa-powered smart speakers, the event featured exciting products aimed at multiple markets. There were a ton of interesting and cutting-edge gadgets on display at IFA 2018, including Acer’s epic gaming throne and Lenovo’s Yoga Book prototype which doesn’t have a keyboard. We have listed five products showcased at the event which we wish we could get our hands on. The Acer Predator Thronos Gaming Chair is every PC gamer’s dream come true. With support for three 27-inch gaming monitors and a dedicated space for a gaming PC, the gaming chair offers everything a hardcore gamer could require in a massive, menacing throne. The steel structure is 1.5 metres tall and is completely adjustable, featuring an ergonomic seat, foot rest, and cabin which reclines up to 140 degrees. Another interesting feature of the Acer Predator Thronos is the chair vibration. When an impact is registered in a video game, the chair itself vibrates to provide added immersion. There is no release date or pricing information available for the gaming chair.   Samsung’s new X5 external SSD is an impressive piece of hardware. The device uses a Thunderbolt 3 and NVMe interface to allow for lightning-fast data transfer rates of up to 40Gbps. This translates to read and write speeds of 2,800MB/s and 2,300MB/s respectively, which is almost 30-times faster than a standard external HDD. For example, you could send a 20GB video from your PC to your SSD in just 12 seconds. This impressive device is available globally from 3 September 2018 and is priced as follows:   LG showed off the world’s first 8K OLED TV at IFA 2018. The display has an impressive resolution of 7,680×4,320, which means there over 33 million self-illuminating pixels comprising the 88-inch panel. This is even more impressive when you consider that OLED panels have no backlight and each pixel is illuminated individually – depending on the composition of the frame. LG said the display also maintains the impressive contrast ratio and true blacks which define its OLED line-up. There is currently no pricing or release date available for LG’s 8K OLED TV.   Lenovo’s new Yoga Book sports a radical design change – the removal of a physical keyboard. Instead of a traditional keyboard, the Yoga Book C930 features an E Ink touch display which can display the image of a keyboard and provide haptic feedback to the user when they are typing. The laptop is extremely thin, with a 360-degree hinge, and boasts an Intel 7th-gen processor with Windows 10 installed. A pen is included with the device and can be used to sketch, make notes, and draw over image files using the E Ink display. The laptop also has a new “Knock Knock” feature which automatically opens the lid of the device when a user knocks on it twice. There is currently no pricing or release date information for the Lenovo Yoga Book C930.   Sennheiser showed off its new Momentum True Wireless earphones at IFA 2018. The earphones connect to media playback devices via Bluetooth and feature touch interfaces and 7mm dynamic drivers. Sennheiser’s wireless earbuds have a four-hour battery life and can be charged by placing them into their compact carry case – which has an integrated power bank. The case can provide an additional 12 hours of usage, according to the company. The Momentum True Wireless earphones will be available from November 2018 for €299.  