In 2018, South Africans have been under heightened attack from cyber criminals and hackers – and according to HP, your printer can be the leading cause. Security breaches that have impacted companies and citizens significantly of late include the Liberty email hack and the Master Deed’s data breach. In the Master Deed’s data breach, 60 million South Africans’ personal data, from ID numbers to company directorships, were compromised. In many cases, printers and multifunction printers (MFPs) are the weak link in the security of a company’s IT operations, as printers may provide access to private information contained in printed information. Intruders also can intercept print files or discover user credentials to gain entry to other networked computers and servers. The problem with this is that very few companies realise the impact of poor print security. A study by the Ponemon Institute revealed that only 59% of companies surveyed believe print security is important to their business processes. And according to HP’s survey of 300 IT and security professionals, only 16% of companies think printers are a high security risk. With this mindset, most businesses don’t cover printing in their security policies – but without it businesses are left vulnerable to costly attacks from inside and outside their organisations. What companies need to realise is that print security is more than document security. Today’s threats require attention to data in-transit and endpoint devices on the network. Securing devices requires coordinated protection of hardware and software, plus comprehensive monitoring and management solutions. HP’s most secure printing portfolio enables enterprises of all sizes to secure their printers with the most comprehensive device, data and document security. HP printers help users defend their network as the printers are always on guard and stops an attack the moment it starts. HP Enterprise models can also self-heal with unique security features: HP software solutions help ensure only authenticated users and devices access your print network and keep your data encrypted, so users can protect sensitive information – in transit and in the queue. With document security functionality, enterprises can protect confidential documents and reduce unclaimed prints. HP Secure MPS can help reduce a companies’ risk with the most comprehensive device, data, and document security. To find out more, visit the HP website.  This article was published in partnership with HP.