Having a fibre connection, which is much quicker than standard broadband and can handle considerable volumes of data, will allow you to take advantage of everything the digital world has to offer. Whether you need a fast home connection, you run an international business, or deal in bulk services, a high-speed Internet connection ensures you never lose connection. NEPIC, one of the fastest-growing Internet Service Providers (ISP) in South Africa, offers a range of affordable fibre packages to suit a wide range of customer needs. Nepic offers a faster Internet experience with real speed, guaranteed bandwidth, unfiltered, unthrottled service, reliability, and quality service that can make an enormous difference in your experience as an Internet user. As a faster Internet solution, this service can connect to multiple smart devices effortlessly, as well as support HD video streaming across platforms. It can also support VoIP calling, offers quick sending and receiving of files, access for video conferencing, and lightning-fast browsing at peak times. Catering to a wide range of customer needs, NEPIC offers a selection of line speeds and data packages, ranging from a starter 10Mbps to a full 1,000Mbps for large businesses. With this level of service on a private level, home owners can convert their house into a smart home, linking IP security cameras, smart sensors, lighting ,and other devices to their fibre connection for the strongest networking power yet. As the fastest-growing ISP in Gauteng, NEPIC has launched their uncapped fibre packages on Vumatel and is now expanding their offering nationally. Uncapped packages on VUMA are detailed in the table below. To sign up for a fibre connection that allows you to reduce outrageous phone bills and unstable Internet lines, or to check for availability in your area, contact NEPIC or sign up for their Epic uncapped fibre packages on VUMA. Customers who sign up for an Epic uncapped fibre package from NEPIC on VUMA stand a chance to win an ASUS router. This article was published in partnership with Nepic Blitz.