United States intelligence agencies were alerted to the Gupta’s activities within South Africa’s government in 2009, according to a report in the Sunday Times. The Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) reportedly warned South African intelligence agencies about the controversial family’s operations, prompting an investigation into the Gupta’s involvement in state capture. Former spy bosses Gibson Njenje and Moe Shaik told the Sunday Times that they met with former president Jacob Zuma several times to warn him of the dangers posed by the Gupta family, but Zuma did not heed their warnings. Njenje said that US intelligence was alerted to the Gupta family’s operations due to their uranium mining operations. “The Americans wanted to know why the Guptas are interested in mining uranium and where they intend sending their product,” said Njenje. “Naturally, we were interested as well.” The local investigation prompted by the CIA’s interest in the family led both intelligence bosses to be relieved of their posts, the report stated. Njenje said that the Guptas began to directly interfere with government operations in 2010, exploiting their links with the president. “From a state security point of view we were trying to find out – why this audacity?” Njenje said. “They were making an open show that they have a relationship with the president.” The investigation revealed that Zuma visited the Gupta compound in Saxonwold at least once a week and would have dinner there every Monday. Shaik added that repeated attempts to meet with Zuma over his involvement with the Guptas were futile and unproductive. “The president gave us a story about Duduzane and Duduzile and the Guptas that we never really understood,” Shaik said. “It was clear he was not going to do anything. He said the Guptas were the only people willing to help his son.” South African prosecutors are still pursuing the Gupta family for activities related to state capture, and warrants have been issued for both Atul and Tony Gupta. Prosecutors are also attempting to work with the United Arab Emirates government to lock down allegedly-stolen funds which have been moved out of South Africa and into Dubai.