Huawei recently launched its new P20 and P20 Pro smartphones, which feature an overhauled design and cutting-edge camera systems. The company launched the devices at a special event held at the Grand Palais in Paris, France. MyBroadband attended the event and spoke to Huawei head of global marketing Clement Wong about the company’s plans for the new phones and competing against other major smartphone manufacturers. Wong told MyBroadband that Huawei has cemented itself as a top-three smartphone manufacturer globally, and plans to continue innovating in an effort to take market share from its competitors. “We have the confidence and spirit to be a leading smartphone manufacturer,” said Wong. “To continue competing with other major smartphone manufacturers, what you really want is to create meaningful innovation – and that is our main goal.” Wong said the company approaches its product design with the aim of innovating, a philosophy portrayed through the P20’s radical new features and design. Huawei’s P20 Pro boasts an impressive triple-lens camera system, created in partnership with Leica. The Huawei P20 also sports a Leica camera system with two lenses, and both devices use built-in AI chips to detect objects and create the best photo possible. The P20 and P20 Pro feature bezel-less displays with a small notch at the top, which can be hidden by changing options in the device’s settings. Huawei has also removed the headphone jack from its flagship smartphones for the second year in a row, shipping an adapter with each device which supports standard headphones. The company’s new Mate RS Porsche Design smartphone is another testament to the company’s push towards innovation. The Mate RS Porsche Design is a very-high-end device with a ton of impressive features, including a curved edge-to-edge display, Leica triple-camera system, and in-screen fingerprint sensor. “Our focus is on making great products, and our market share will grow along with the increasing adoption of our devices,” said Wong.