Brother Industries, a parent company of Brother International South Africa, one of the leading global manufacturer of laser and inkjet printing devices, has won “iF DESIGN AWARD 2018” for 4 product categories. iF DESIGN AWARD 2018 received 6,401 entries from 54 countries and regions. This is the 11th consecutive year Brother has been named as an iF DESIGN AWARD winner and has now received a total of 66 awards, including the four won this year. The iF Design Award was awarded to the HL-L8360CDW colour laser printer and MFC-L8690CDW and MFC-L9570CDW colour laser multi-function centres. These recently launched award-winning products are covered by a three-year on-site warranty against manufacturer defects in materials and workmanship. The warranty is applied automatically on the purchase date so there is no need to register your product online. Dale de Villiers, Marketing Manager at Brother South Africa, said “We are extremely honoured to receive these awards. Brother continuously makes efforts to pursue improvements in design quality and product innovation to provide superior value to customers and this is evident with the 66 awards we have received to date.” iF DESIGN AWARD is hosted and judged by the iF-International Forum Design, in Hannover, Germany. This is one of the most prestigious international design competitions and has been running since 1953. It is recognised around the world and judged not only on the external appearance of the product, but also on criteria such as functionality and environmental performance. For more information about Brother, visit http://www.brother.co.za. iF Design Award-winning Business Colour Laser Printer Series: † Applicable to selected models.^ The MFC-L8690CDW ADF capacity is up to 50 sheets and the MFC-L9570CDW ADF capacity up to 80 sheets. All prices are inclusive of the prevailing taxes and include a 3-year on-site warranty. These machines can be purchased through Brother International South Africa’s authorised resellers.       This article was published in partnership with Brother.