Thibault Dousson is the General Manager of Lenovo South Africa, a position he loves. Dousson has extensive experience in the IT industry and has held various high-level management positions throughout his career. He previously held the position of country manager for HP South Africa before moving to head up Lenovo South Africa two years ago. While a bit of luck always played a role in his success, Dousson had to follow this up with hard work and careful planning to get to where he is today. “I got my first manager role a little bit by accident, or rather good timing,” he said. “After that, a lot of hard work and career planning were necessary. But there is always a little bit of luck at some point.” Dousson started off his career in the sales export department of a photographic equipment company, earning roughly R6,000 a month. The job involved conducting business across England, Spain, and Italy, and was very admin-driven. When it comes to his current job at Lenovo, Dousson said he enjoys the freedom to create a local strategy for the company. “Country GM is probably the best role you can get at Lenovo,” he said. “You obviously have to follow guidelines in terms of strategic direction, but you have a certain level of leeway that makes you take your own decision. It’s like driving your own business.” “The team I work with locally is amazing, they have a real dedication and passion for what they do – it is exhilarating.” Dousson places a strong emphasis on career planning, and advises that every newcomer to the world of business have a clear idea of where they want to go. “Think about the steps that are necessary to get there then plan your career. You will need to train and learn throughout,” he said. “Making the right connection is important too. And have fun with what you do.”  Which smartphone do you use? Motorola Z2 Force. I love Android. Which laptop do you use? Lenovo X1 ThinkPad Carbon. What is the best gadget you have ever bought? Garmin Vivoactive. What is the worst gadget you have ever bought? Wi-Fi dongle for DSTV. What Internet connection (fixed broadband) do you have at home? 50Mbps Uncapped Fibre. What is the best investment you have ever made? MBA/Pension fund. What is the worst investment you have ever made? My first house. Bought when the market was high, then it crashed. I don’t think I will see that investment balance any time soon. What is the best business book you have ever read? Be the Boss Everyone Wants to Work For by William Gentry.