Network Platforms offers seamless solutions and nationwide coverage to assure reactive, personalised, and reliable ICT implementations for businesses of all sizes. The ICT service provider delivers intelligent solutions tailored to suit the needs of the modern business, offering an array of high-quality products designed to assure both efficiency and scale, including connectivity, cloud solutions, virtual private networks, VoIP, IT consultancy, and focused, organisation-specific managed services. The company specialises in wholesale connectivity at extremely competitive rates – supplied to wireless Internet service providers and with a number of ISPs across Africa. Network Platforms’ wholesale connectivity services include International Layer 2, Local Layer 2, National Layer 2, IP Transit, Remote NAP Africa, Remote LINX Ports, Remote DE-CIX Ports, and Remote AMS-IX Ports. The IP Transit service includes NTT, Cogent, Telia, and Level3, which is picked up in London via two diverse points-of-presence – Telecity Harbour Exchange and Telehouse East. This positions the company to provide one the best local IPT services in terms of quality and redundancies. Businesses can get IP Transit and a direct link to the London Internet exchange at great per-Mbps rates, and should you choose to peer with the London exchange, companies can also improve international latencies. Network Platforms also offers the option of Layer 2 services to London, so businesses can pick up Tier 1 providers directly in London. Network Platforms also offers monitoring as a standard service, with immediate notification if there are any issues. Customers automatically gain access to its graphical interface, which offers a quick overview of the capacity they are using. It ensures clients are informed of usage and capacities at all times. To assist with bandwidth management, Network Platforms offers a burst model, so businesses only pay for the used bandwidth on the 95-percentile usage. There are three options on burst – 30%, 50%, and 100% burst over the commit information rate. Network Platforms also offers Wholesale National Long Distance, which includes a protected service between Teraco Durban, Teraco Johannesburg, and Teraco Cape Town at very competitive rates. For its wholesale connectivity services, Network Platforms harnesses the capabilities of the three international cable systems – SAT3, WACS, and EASSy – as well as multiple local routes and Tier 1 upstream providers that connect to the point-of-presence in London for fast connectivity and high quality of traffic. The service is uncontended, capacity-based, and unmetered, or a bandwidth model crafted to unique specifications, with an 99.9% SLA. To ensure superior performance, Network Platforms has also implemented the Noction Intelligent Routing Platform – a border gateway protocol (BGP) optimisation application that examines and scores the different paths to determine the best-performing route and applies the changes to the core routers, so should latency increase on one path IRP will modify the route to a better performing path. Within the first month of being live with Noction IRP, Network Platforms saw 53,732 unique prefixes being improved, with 42% of them being improved by loss reason and 52% by latency reason. The average loss rate dropped from 45%, to 7%, reducing the average loss rate by 84.44%. Network Platforms’ wholesale connectivity services are structured in such a way as to use the combined purchasing power of all participants – which delivers a low-cost solution in a competitive market. In fact, Network Platforms believes it can beat the current rates of most businesses by 20%. To prove its claim, Network Platforms is able to run a one-month proof of concept for businesses to experience its service and support, and those who sign up for the IP Transit service will get an additional month free. For more information, visit the Network Platforms website. This article was published in partnership with Network Platforms.