AMD has unveiled its second-generation Ryzen processors, improving on the design of its previous generation. The company announced that its four new Ryzen 2000 chips will be available worldwide from 19 April 2018. AMD’s new Ryzen 2000 chips offer increased efficiency paired with high core counts, making them ideal for multi-threaded applications. “Second-generation Ryzen desktop processors take everything that made the original Ryzen so groundbreaking and makes it better – great performance combined with advanced technology to deliver an amazing experience for the most demanding users,” said AMD. Pre-orders for the new generation of AMD processors will be available from 13 April 2018. AMD also previously released two Ryzen 2000 processors with integrated graphics, although their core count is limited compared to the new generation of chips. In the new range, the Ryzen 7 processors boast 8 cores with 16 threads, while the Ryzen 5 chips sport 6 cores and 12 threads. The chips are built on AMD’s Zen+ architecture, a refined version of the Zen architecture which the original Ryzen CPUs are built on. All Ryzen chips will also ship with a bundled AMD Wraith CPU cooler, detailed below: The specifications of the new Ryzen 2000 chips are listed below. The new Ryzen processors will be compatible with AMD’s new X470 chipset, which the company said is the most optimised chipset available for the AM4 socket. X470 motherboards will also include a free download of AMD’s StoreMI storage acceleration technology, which merges SSD and mechanical hard disk storage to produce a single fast and high-capacity drive. Motherboards with the X470 chipset will launch alongside the second-generation CPUs, and will be available from various manufacturers – including ASRock, ASUS, Gigabyte, and MSI. The new chipset will be compatible with all processors that use the AM4 socket, and AMD’s existing 300-series motherboards will be compatible with the new Ryzen processors, following the installation of a BIOS update. Existing motherboards with this BIOS update pre-installed will ship with a “Ryzen Desktop 2000 Ready” label to indicate their compatibility.