Huawei’s flagship HUAWEI P Series devices are known for their design, cutting-edge technology and best-in-class camera. The latest HUAWEI P20 Pro transcends beyond the expectation of smartphone cameras to revolutionize the smartphone experience. By packing features such as 40 MP Leica Triple Camera, AI Image Stabilization for stunning night shots and 5x Zoom, Huawei has brought in an era where capturing professional quality pictures is effortless. HUAWEI P20 Pro is equipped with Master AI, means that the smartphone camera does the thinking for you, and automatically adjusts its settings to give you the best picture results. AI-powered real-time scene and object recognition technology can recognize more than 500 scenarios in 19 categories for users to choose the right skills at the right moment, be it blue skies, people or a dog. It even adjusts the lighting and the optimal scene parameters. The AI Beautification for Selfies feature captures the smallest details even in low-light settings. With each selfie taken, AI beautification provides 3D portrait lighting resulting in luminous skin-tone enhancements and radiant selfies even when backlit. The results are so stunning, it’s like having a personal beauty entourage or make-up artist with you. One of the most exceptional features on the phone is its night time photography mode. The camera has the ability to capture objects and scenery at night that even the eye cannot see! Taking photos in low-light conditions usually requires a professional cameras and a tripod. By combining a large 40 MP sensors and wide aperture lenses into the device, the HUAWEI P20 Pro produces exquisite detail in every image to give you some of the most vibrant, clear and detailed shots taken with low light at night. In addition, the HUAWEI P20 Pro uses Huawei AIS (AI Image Stabilization) technology to recognize objects and correct images as a result of shifts and blurs caused by an unsteady hand holding the device. With this feature, you can capture steady, clear footage of even motion scenes, ensuring you never miss capturing a moment or taking incredible long exposure images without a tripod. Whether you’re photographing a child’s innocent facial expression, a puppy’s playful eyes or the pattern on a butterfly’s wings, the HUAWEI P20 Pro’s incredible 5x Hybrid Zoom captures vivid colors, textures and intricate design details as if you’re standing right in front of the object. HUAWEI P20 Pro also has an all-new Leica 3x telephoto lens for long-range photography of up to 5x, making it perfect companion for travelers who love to take long-range photos, freeing them from the burden of heavy lens attachments and large, professional photography equipment. It’s also perfect for food and jewellery photo-taking, capturing vivid colors, textures and intricate design details. HUAWEI P20 Pro comes to life in a signature gradient Twilight as well as Black and Midnight Blue colours. The stunning Twilight color fades layer by layer from a striking blue to vibrant purple, like an exquisite piece of artwork in your hand, giving you a unique style statement. This article was published in partnership with Huawei.