Vehicle and driver’s licensing centres in Tshwane recently started using an online booking system to help schedule renewals for driving licence cards. The system is provided by The Online Company South Africa and is in use at the Akasia, Waltloo, Centurion, and Bronkhorstspruit licensing centres. No additional fees are charged for making an online booking and it is not possible to pay for the licence renewal using the system. It does offer the option of having your driving licence card delivered using MDS Collivery for R96.45 to most of Gauteng, however. Deliveries to outside the province, or to towns further away from the middle of Gauteng, are more expensive. To use the new system, you must register an account on The Online Company website, providing your name, contact details, and ID number. Once an account is created, you may select a service centre location for your licence renewal, along with an available appointment slot. Appointments are booked in 30-minute intervals. The Online Company then emails a receipt of the appointment, and emails a reminder for your appointment the day before it takes place.  I tested the system and booked an appointment at the Centurion licensing centre. When I arrived, a staff member had a list of names of people who made appointments using the online booking system. Rather than queuing outside as a “walk in” customer and risk getting turned away if the centre has reached its capacity for the day, you provide your name and receipt to the person outside the building. They check you off, and direct you to where you need to go. Inside the building, a separate section has been created for online bookings. You collect and fill in the relevant documents, then wait your turn for fingerprinting and an eye test. When you have your eye test results, you are directed to cashiers to pay for the renewal. The Centurion licensing centre accepts cash and card, but you are encouraged to bring enough cash for the renewal – in case the card machine is not available. In total, the whole renewal process took about 30 minutes – significantly less time than people reported renewals were taking after thieves broke in and stole equipment from licensing centres around Tshwane. Overall, the online booking system for the licence renewal was awesome, and bodes well for users if the system is rolled out to more centres.