Samsung’s QLED 4K TVs offer perfect colour, high contrast ratios, and a long panel lifespan, thanks to the company’s innovative Quantum Dot technology. For the tech-savvy user, this is great news. For the average consumer, however, the impressive technical specs may be lost on them. What this means in layman’s terms is that Samsung’s range of QLED TVs provide exceptional picture quality, are made to last, and produce an unmatched colour experience. Thanks to Samsung’s Quantum Dot technology, the company’s QLED 4K TVs offer 100% colour volume. While great colour reproduction is a must-have for any modern TV, it must work beyond a retailer’s showroom floor – and be able to perform at its best in your lounge or TV room at home. To accomplish this, Samsung has also packed HDR and Ultra Black technology into its TVs, giving viewers lifelike details on their screens. HDR – high dynamic range – brings out every detail in a scene, regardless of whether it is shot in a bright or dark area. To ensure you get the full benefit of HDR when you use your QLED TV, Samsung has incorporated its Ultra Black technology into the panel. Ultra Black gets rid of the dreaded reflection of your window and walls on your TV screen during the day, and light bulbs and other sources of light while watching at night, by minimizing light reflections off the screen. “It doesn’t matter whether the room you are in is dark or bright, you’ll still enjoy the same great picture quality,” said Samsung. And it’s not only viewers who sit front and centre who get the benefits of the QLED TV range. Samsung has designed its TVs to provide consistent colors and a great picture regardless of your viewing angle. This means that no matter where you sit or stand to watch your favourite movie or series, you see the scene the way it was intended to be seen. The video below shows how Samsung’s QLED TVs provide a great picture regardless of lighting conditions, thanks to its HDR and Ultra Black technology. <span data-mce-type="bookmark" style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;" class="mce_SELRES_start">﻿</span> Samsung’s QLED TVs are available in a variety of sizes across its range: To learn more about Samsung’s QLED TVs, visit the Samsung website. This article was published in partnership with Samsung.