Huawei recently launched its new lineup of flagship devices, which includes the P20 and P20 Pro. The company also unveiled a new luxury smartphone built in collaboration with Porsche Design. The Mate RS Porsche Design is a high-end device with cutting-edge features, sleek hardware, and a hefty price tag. Huawei told MyBroadband that the Mate RS Porsche Design could become available in South Africa in the near future. The Mate RS Porsche Design crams as many features as possible into a slim and bezel-less device, including Huawei’s Kirin 970 processor and an impressive 6GB of RAM. The smartphone’s display stretches across almost the entire front face of the device and embeds a fingerprint sensor underneath it, allowing you to unlock the phone by pressing your finger to its screen. It boasts the same Leica triple-lens camera system as the P20 Pro, along with a physical fingerprint sensor mounted at the back. The Mate RS Porsche Design is also equipped with “aerospace cooling technology” to maintain a safe operating temperature constantly. The international pricing for the 256GB and 512GB models is:  Huawei South Africa Marketing Director Akhram Mohamed said the country is a major market for Huawei, and it was considering launching the Mate RS Porsche Design locally. The market for such a high-end device is relatively small in South Africa, but Huawei saw demand when it launched its Mate 10 Porsche Design in the country. “Within the first quarter following its launch, we sold out of the Mate 10 Porsche Design in South Africa,” said Mohamed. “The Mate RS Porsche Design delivers an ultra-premium experience more in line with Vertu smartphones than other flagship devices,” he added. “The type of consumer who purchases this device wants the best of the best.” Mohamed told MyBroadband that if Huawei launched the Mate RS Porsche Design in South Africa, it would do so relatively soon. While there is no official local pricing for the phone, Mohamed said consumers can expect its price to be similar to that of the Mate 10 Porsche Design. The Mate 10 Porsche Design was priced at R26,999 at launch. Around 1,000 Mate RS Porsche Design smartphones will be made available when launched locally, said Mohamed. “If we release it with the right timing, the Mate RS Porsche Design will be the most luxurious smartphone in the South African market.”