Huawei recently launched its new P Smart smartphone in South Africa, offering high-end performance and a modern design at an attractive price point. The P Smart packs flagship features into a slim and stylish chassis, which surrounds an expanded FullView display. The device’s side bezels are almost non-existent, with the IPS LCD display taking up almost all of its front face Huawei kindly supplied MyBroadband with a P Smart, giving us the opportunity to try out the sleek new device.  The Huawei P Smart’s stylish design is paired with powerful hardware, including a dual-camera system and high-performance processor. Features like dual cameras and bezel-less displays are usually reserved for more expensive smartphones, but the P Smart packs them all in a product priced at only R3,999. The quality of these components is impressive, too. The display comprises an IPS LCD panel with a resolution of 1,080 x 2,160 and impressive colour depth, while the P Smart’s dual-camera system can deliver impressive pictures and record full-HD video at 30 frames per second. This performance is thanks to its HiSilicon Kirin 659 Octa-core chip, which delivers high-end power when paired with the device’s 3GB of RAM. Other features of the smartphone include a 3,000mAh battery, MicroSD 256GB support, and Android 8.0 with EMUI 8.0. The specifications of the Huawei P Smart are listed below. The Huawei P Smart running on Android 8.0 means users can access the latest features from Google operating system. These include everything from faster boot times and improved notifications, to a picture-in-picture mode for certain applications. Huawei’s EMUI Android operating system is also as smooth and clean as ever, offering Android fans a bloatware-free experience. The P Smart supports Android 8.0 features like smart split screen, for example, which allows you to make the most of its extended display by using two apps simultaneously. The device’s camera is another standout feature, with both the front and back cameras delivering impressive shots – all enhanced by a number of software features. The front camera uses Huawei’s Face Beauty algorithm to improve the quality of selfies and its gesture-shot function lets you take images effortlessly. Images taken with the dual rear cameras can automatically enable depth-of-field effects, which can then be edited after shooting. Another great feature of the P Smart is its dual Bluetooth connection support, allowing you to connect to two Bluetooth devices simultaneously. The P Smart is in a league of its own compared to other devices in its price range, thanks to its sleek design, impressive performance, and powerful features. This article was published in partnership with Huawei.