Mustek is stocking mice that are designed by Microsoft to bring out the best of your Windows software. Microsoft mice are sleek, stylish, and functional – specifically designed for Windows with customisable features. Used in conjunction with the Microsoft Mouse and Keyboard Centre, a free official app offering advanced settings, clicking becomes faster, easier, and more comfortable. The Microsoft Mouse and Keyboard Centre helps you personalise and customise your mouse to meet your unique needs and work style. It also allows you to modify your mouse settings to make it easier to use the unique features of most PC apps. Mustek offers a variety of Microsoft mice, which are listed below.  The blue, customisable Windows touch tab on the Sculpt Comfort Mouse provides quick and easy access to the Start Menu, Cortana, OneNote, Task View, or virtual desktops. The Sculpt Comfort Mouse features Bluetooth connectivity for wireless use, and BlueTrack technology which allows it to work on virtually any surface.  The Compact Optical Mouse 500 offers an ambidextrous design at an affordable price point. It features optical technology and a three-button design for smooth, precise control, and the scroll wheel provides quick navigation through documents and webpages.  The Wireless Mouse 900 is a full-size, comfortable, precise, and affordable wireless mouse, providing precise navigation and an ambidextrous design. It has a 2-year average battery life and customisable buttons to give you access to the Windows features you use most.  The Comfort Mouse 4500 offers BlueTrack technology for precise cursor control on most surfaces. It also features comfortable rubber side grips and five customisable buttons that help ensure confident navigation and peak productivity.  Inspired by the Microsoft Intellimouse 3.0, the new Microsoft Classic Intellimouse has precise tracking – with a DPI range up to 3,200 – and a firm scroll wheel. The features that fans of the original loved about the device are still here — customisable buttons, the classic ergonomic look and feel, and the wired USB connection. It also includes modern upgrades, with more precise tracking, more responsive buttons, and the red tail light that made the Microsoft Intellimouse so distinctive is now a clean, modern white.  The Basic Optical Mouse features an ambidextrous design and optical technology for smooth, precise control. Use the scroll wheel for quick navigation and customisable buttons for one-click access to your favourite documents, music files, or functions. For more information on the mice, visit the Mustek website. This article was published in partnership with Mustek.