Cryptocurrency exchange Luno has outlined its plans for the rest of the year. It said it is increasing its focus on improving the buying and selling experience, and aims to educate users about the technology behind cryptocurrencies. Excitement around the investment potential of cryptocurrencies faded somewhat at the beginning of the year, when the market experienced a major slump. This caused many investors to either lose money or pull their funds out of the cryptocurrency market, leading to less volume being exchanged on major blockchains. While popular exchanges like Luno previously found itself overwhelmed by a flood of cryptocurrency investors, it now had breathing room to work on its infrastructure. Luno told MyBroadband it has not seen a reduction in users, but rather people signing up at a slower rate than in the early stages of 2018. “Note that this so-called hype has been quite a regular occurrence over the past few years and is simply a normal part of the longer term adoption period of this new technology,” said Luno. “The current consolidation period gives Luno, and most digital currency platforms around the world, the opportunity to spend more time on customer education and ensuring that our platform is the easiest and safest place to buy and learn about digital currencies like Bitcoin and Ethereum.” Luno said it is always improving its systems, and will continue to upgrade them to create a better experience for customers. “We are constantly looking at new ways to improve the customer experience, whether it is when signing up for the first time or transacting on the Luno mobile or web platforms,” it said. Luno’s improvement plans for 2018 include an enhanced registration and verification process. During the cryptocurrency craze, an influx of new investors were opening Luno accounts and the exchange’s account verification systems were pushed to the limit. This resulted in a long waiting period for a user’s account to be verified, and Luno worked to scale its support staff and processes to handle more customer requests. The company said this situation is now less likely to repeat itself. “We will soon be launching improvements to the signup and funding process as well as more optimised customer support and a host of improved educational materials,” said Luno. “Customers can look forward to faster and more seamless rand deposit and withdrawal methods towards the second part of the year.”