Huawei expects its new P20-series smartphones to far exceed the sales of its P10 smartphone lineup launched last year. The company is also confident about the South African market and the potential of its new smartphone lineup to improve its market share in the flagship segment. Huawei CBG vice president of sales and marketing Jim Xu told MyBroadband the potential of the P20 lineup in South Africa was big. Xu said the smartphone was proving extremely popular across the world, with Huawei shipping four-times the volume of P20 devices compared to the P10 in Europe. He added that this trend is reflected in the South African market, with Huawei expected to sell up to four-times as many P20 devices compared to the P10 last year. The P20 Lite is also expected to greatly surpass the P10 Lite in terms of sales volume, said Xu. Huawei CBG South Africa General Manager Likun Zhao added that the company’s mid-range smartphones are set to see impressive growth. “This year I believe it will be the P20 Lite and P Smart which are the most popular Huawei devices in South Africa,” said Zhao.  Xu said he also expects more South African consumers to move to Huawei smartphones from Apple and Samsung. He said attractive features such as leading mobile photography and larger batteries will convince consumers using other flagship devices to move to Huawei’s P20 lineup. An obstacle which Huawei has faced in the South African market, however, is improving its brand recognition and consideration. “South Africa is defined as a key country in Huawei Group,” said Xu. “It is difficult to convince consumers that a smartphone from China is a premium device,” he added. Huawei has focussed on improving brand consideration, while its brand recognition remains strong at 83%. Huawei’s brand consideration has almost doubled in recent years, rising from 13% in 2016 to 25% at the end of 2017, said the company. If the company’s P20 lineup performs as expected, Huawei’s brand consideration could continue its meteoric rise through 2018 – making it more competitive against Apple and Samsung devices.