Across the region, businesses and governments are taking steps to ensure that Africa can compete in the digital age. “In order for the region to fulfil its digital potential, however, a new generation needs to step forward with fresh ideas, a hunger to learn digital skills, and a passion to use technology to better the lives of everyone in society,” says Liquid Telecom in its African Generation Z Report 2018. The report takes an in-depth look at how Gen Z could shape business and innovation in Africa in the years to come. Generation Z is the first to have never known life without the Internet or social media, having been born between 1995 and the early 2000s. Most have likely never posted a letter, read a newspaper, or used a library file referencing system – much less searched through an encyclopaedia, navigated using a map, looked up a number in a phone book, rented a movie, endured a broadcaster’s choice of viewing schedule, bought or used a CD, or even used a mobile device with a physical keypad. Instead, they source their news from the likes of BuzzFeed and 9gag, study using SparkNotes, self-teach using YouTube tutorials, line up their own choice of streamed entertainment, instantly discover music using Shazam, receive invitations via Facebook event alerts, find dates using dating apps, and navigate using Google Maps. “This has shaped their attitudes and abilities to operate online – they are not just comfortable with rapidly-changing technology, but are set to become authoritative figures on technology in the modern workplace,” states the report. The report examines how Gen Z will consume digital services and analyses what new digital skills will be critical in the not-so-distant future. “Technology is empowering Gen Z to do things no other generation before them could, and access to information online has reduced dependency on traditional teaching methods, enabling young Africans to teach themselves coding and other valuable IT skills,” states the report. This is creating a culture of entrepreneurship among young adults, who are questioning traditional ways of working and adopting new approaches to tackling problems. The report highlights that the next generation are demonstrating an enormous passion and appetite for technology – with many not motivated by personal economic gain, but by the goal of using innovation to solve some of the region’s largest problems and improve lives. For more information and to download the report, visit the Liquid Telecom website. This article was published in partnership with Liquid Telecom.