Liquid Telecom CTO Imran Abbas has always had a love for mathematics and science, and from a young age was attracted to technology. He wanted to become an electrical engineer, but because of financial constraints, he could not attend university. He then opted for a learnership programme from then the South African Post and Telecommunications company. His first job was a technician in training in outside plant planning for Telkom copper and fibre networks. “I earned R627 per month, and I still have that payslip filed at home,” said Abbas. As part of his learnership he studied electrical engineering at the Technikon Witwatersrand, where he graduated top of his class. Abbas believes one should never stop learning, and continued his education part time at the University of Pretoria until he achieved his Bachelor’s degree. He followed that up with an MBA and is currently busy with a PhD in Engineering. Abbas remembers his early days as a Telkom technician well, saying he sometimes misses being in the trenches and manholes repairing fibre and copper breaks, under pressure, in all weather conditions. “It was an adventure every day – getting to see some of the country and not knowing what size rats and snakes you will find,” he said. He is particularly proud of being part of the team which rolled out the first analogue to digital network migrations on DRMAS and Rurtel for Telkom in Mpumalanga. He said it was also great to be in charge of Neotel’s business support services, which formed part of rolling out the national long-distance fibre network. Being in the technical field can also have its challenges, and Abbas said as a techie you quickly learn that dealing with failure is part of the job. “Systems do fail, it is about how quickly you can restore it that matters most to your customers,” he said. He recalls his team digging into a 12kVa power cable in the Northern Cape causing a short circuit and blowing up an electrical sub-station. “The town was out of power for eight hours,” said Abbas.  Linux, Windows, or macOS? Home – macOS.
Work – Windows. Which smartphone do you use? Apple iPhone 7 Plus. Which laptop do you use? Home – MacBook Pro.
Work – Lenovo ThinkPad. What is the best gadget you have ever bought? Garmin Fenix 5 Sapphire (GPS multi-sports watch). What is the worst gadget you have ever bought? Canon camera with zoom lens. Great device, but only used a few times. What Internet connection do you have at home? NeoBroadband Fibre unlimited. For gaming: PC, PS4, or Xbox? PC. What is your favourite game? ZWIFT – the home training game connecting cyclists around the world. What is the best investment you have ever made? My bicycles – they are an investment in my health. I completed my first Iron Man South Africa on 15 April 2018 in Port Elizabeth. What is the worst investment you have ever made? My cars – they depreciate so quickly. What is the best business or IT book you have ever read? The 7 Habits of Highly Effective People – Steven Covey
The Monk Who Sold his Ferrari – Robin Sharma
The Fortune at the Bottom of the Pyramid – C K Prahalad.