MyBroadband got tired of hearings, tribunals, and social media campaigns calling for lower data prices and cheaper calls – so we decided to do something about it. Introducing MyBroadband #DataSmasher, a new smartphone from us which comes paired with a SIM card. This is not just any SIM card – it is a module which packs unlimited data and local calls to any network. And when we say unlimited, we mean as damn close as technically possible. The data fair usage policy on the SIM is 250GB per month. Once you reach this threshold, your data speeds will be throttled to 10Mbps. A great mobile speed in anyone’s book. The allotment of unlimited calls to any network in South Africa is just as generous – a 10,000-minute fair usage cap per month. The smartphone which comes with the #DataSmasher package is equally impressive. The Android 8.0 device packs a 5.2-inch QHD+ display and 256GB of storage – and is included for free when you take the bundle. Thanks to a shipping accident and complicated legal paperwork regarding claiming salvaged goods in the South China sea, we can bring you this deal at great prices. It’s simple. First, you buy a MyBroadband #DataSmasher package – available for R99 per month on a month-to-month deal (with no cancellations in the first three months). You unwrap the box, put the SIM in the smartphone, turn it on, and you are good to go. The SIM will connect to Vodacom, MTN, Telkom, Cell C, and Rain’s networks – connecting to the tower with the best data speeds and lowest latency. You are then free to make calls and use data as you wish. There is no shaping or throttling until the FUP is reached. How did we strike such a good deal with the local networks, you ask? Thanks to a shipping accident and complicated legal paperwork regarding business ownership in the South China sea, MyBroadband now owns a large stake in multiple international undersea cables.  The MyBroadband #DataSmasher package is available from today, 1 April 2018, via its product site. To order, you will need to submit your ID and proof of residence – for RICA purposes – and submit your payment method. Delivery of the package to your door is free. Please note that stocks are limited, and customers will be served on a first-come-first-served basis. Additionally, only one package per customer is allowed for purchase. To learn more about the MyBroadband #DataSmasher package, and to place your order, visit its product website. 