Businesses across the globe rely on applications to drive their businesses forward – from back-end operations to the delivery of new products, services, and customer experiences – so when access to data lags, the business lags. In business, any slow down or disruption across the infrastructure stack causes an “app-data gap” that disrupts the application and generates a waiting period, leading to a slow-down in productivity, business losses, and customer dissatisfaction. In the ICT industry, utmost performance is demanded, and when data slows down, it impacts the bottom-line significantly. To curb this impact, businesses need to start asking themselves what keeps their data from their apps by predicting the problems that cause downtime and then prevent them. Aptronics offers HPE Nimble Storage, which delivers an unparalleled, comprehensive, all-flash storage portfolio, powered by predictive analytics to better support unpredictable and mixed application workloads. Besides offering predictive analysis, it is also cloud-ready and timeless to help bridge the app-data gap, and so every app gets the performance and resiliency it needs.  All this is offered in the solution called HPE InfoSight – an artificial intelligence (AI) platform that eliminates wasted time by transforming how infrastructure is managed and supported. Through cloud-based machine learning, HPE InfoSight predicts and prevents problems across your infrastructure and ensures optimal performance and efficient resource use. HPE InfoSight watches over your data centre 24/7, so you don’t have to spend your days, nights, and weekends dealing with infrastructure anymore.  The two lead product families in the Infosight offering are HPE 3PAR StoreServ and HPE Nimble Storage. which together offer predictive, cloud-ready, and timeless analytics. With predictive analytics powering the industry’s most advanced and comprehensive flash storage portfolio, HPE all-flash storage helps close the app-data gap. For more information visit the Aptronics website. *All claims are substantiated in this document: https://h20195.www2.hpe.com/v2/Getdocument.aspx?docname=a00018503ENW. This article was published in partnership with Aptronics.