South Africa is prone to winter power outages, caused by the overloading of the local power grid with heaters and other electric appliances. As a result, many businesses experience sporadic and even prolonged power failures as supply struggles to cope with demand. “It is no secret that South Africa’s power supply can be a very unreliable as there is network overloading and cable thieves that compromise our electricity supply on a regular basis,” says BT-SA. “The long-term effect of these power failures are problematic for various businesses, such as medical, mining, retail, transportation, engineering, and any other businesses that requires reliable power connectivity, such as server hosting companies.” To help local businesses deal with power outages, BT-SA has provided the following important tips. One of the greatest causes of equipment damage from a power outage is the unavoidable electrical surges that occur when power is restored. If the power goes off, make sure computers and other electronics are plugged into surge protectors to protect them. Any other sensitive devices without surge protection should be unplugged. When the power goes out, check with other offices in the building or any nearby buildings if their power has also gone off. If your neighbours still have mains electricity, there may just be a fault with the wiring in your building, or a fault with your appliances, and an electrician should be contacted to identify the issue. If your neighbours are also affected by the power outage, you can report the problem by calling Eskom on 08600 ESKOM (08600 37566). Eskom’s contact centre also has a facility for self-service, so you can report a fault or listen to outage status messages without having to wait to speak to an agent. If your office phones aren’t working, you should make clients and business partners aware of the outage. Sending an email to your key contacts and publishing posts on your social media about the power outage will also help to minimise any frustration from those trying to get in touch while you’re not operational. Investing in alternative power solutions, such as a backup generator and UPS, will ensure that business and production is not compromised in the event of a power failure. For medical, mining, and heavy engineering industries, it ensures that critical machinery continues to function, and it also prevents loss of data in the event of unreliable power. BT-SA offers these solutions for both commercial and industrial applications, such as generators and UPSs, as well as design and maintenance services. Visit the BT-SA website to get a quote on the alternative power source that will best suit your company needs and keep the lights on in your business throughout winter. This article was published in partnership with BT-SA.