Intel has unveiled a new lineup of high-performance mobile processors, which includes its first-ever Core i9 CPU for laptops. The company launched the new laptop chips across its Core U-Series and Core H-Series. Mobile processors in Intel’s H-Series feature up to six cores with 12 threads and boast much better performance than the previous generation of mobile CPUs. The U-Series chips are more power-efficient than the high-performance products, and comprise both dual and quad-core chips with four and eight threads respectively. The H-Series chips have a thermal design power (TDP) of 45W, while the U-Series processors have a TDP of 28W. Intel’s new mobile chips are already being used in high-end laptops, such as the ASUS ROG Zephyrus M, and will adopted in powerful mobile devices as manufacturers take up the technology. The specifications of Intel’s new H-Series and U-Series mobile processors are listed below.  Intel said its Core i9-8950HK is the highest-performance mobile processor it has ever created, and is aimed at delivering exceptional gaming and content-creation experiences. The i9-8950HK is an overclockable chip, making it ideal for performance enthusiasts looking to get the best clock speeds possible from their laptop. Additionally, the higher core count of its siblings make them perfect for gaming laptops and high-end professional notebooks. The new processors are built on Intel’s Coffee Lake architecture, which uses a refined 14nm manufacturing process to improve on the company’s previous 14nm architectures. According to Intel, its new H-Series mobile chips deliver up to 41% better performance in games compared to the previous generation, and deliver 59% faster video editing in 4K resolutions. The new Core i9 processor also includes a feature called Thermal Velocity Boost (TVB), which automatically overclocks the chip if its temperature remains low. Intel has increased support for its Optane storage products with its latest mobile chip lineup, too, and the manufacturer said it will begin shipping products branded as Core i3+, i5+, and i7+. This “+” label indicates that a device combines Intel’s new high-performance chips with Optane memory acceleration. Intel added that the news chips also feature integrated graphics. The integrated graphics solutions in the CPUs are based on existing Intel graphics solutions, and include the likes of the Intel UHD Graphics 630.