Marvel’s Runaways is now streaming first and only on Showmax in South Africa. The Hulu TV show is set in the Marvel universe and features six childhood friends who’ve grown apart, but are brought back together when they find out that their parents are super-villains in disguise. The friends band together to run away from their homes in order to defy their parents’ plan, and to discover the secrets of their origins – with a mix of technology, strategy, and their own surprising superpowers. This team might not be as well-known as some other Marvel heroes, so we take a closer look at the Runaways and their powers below.  Watch all 10 episodes now on Showmax »  Alex Wilder (Rhenzy Feliz) has a superhero’s bravery and love for justice, but he’s not gifted with any superpowers and doesn’t choose to use a superhero name. The nerdy technophile and gamer is the leader of the Runaways, however, in that he’s the one who’s most active in bringing them back together, and he uses his incredible intelligence and tactical mind to keep his friends out of trouble.  Nico Minoru (Lyrica Okano) is also known as Sister Grimm, and becomes a wiccan after absorbing a magical staff when her mother – a dark wizard – attempts to attack her with it. Quiet, tender-hearted Goth girl Nico earns the power to cast any spell using the staff, but each spell can only be cast once.  Karolina Dean (Virginia Gardner) is really a Majesdanian – a bioluminescent alien – and her special physiology is the source of her abilities. These had been suppressed throughout her life by a bracelet made of an alien metal that her parents told her was an allergy bracelet. Once she takes it off, her powers are revealed. She can absorb solar energy and convert it into glowing light energy. She can also fly, is superhumanly strong, and is impervious to heat.  Gertrude Yorks (Ariela Barer), or Gert, is a snarky-but-shy social justice warrior who is battling anxiety disorder. Like Alex, Gert doesn’t have any inherent powers of her own, but she does take on the code name Arsenic. She does have something as useful as superpowers, however – a psionically engineered deinonychus with whom she has a telepathic link. The dinosaur, named Old Lace, was designed and created by Gertrude’s parents, who are time travellers.  Molly Hernandez (Allegra Acosta) is the youngest of the Runaways, and was adopted by Gert’s parents after her own parents died in a mysterious fire. She has a positive, enthusiastic spirit, and is the most excited about becoming a superhero – naming herself Princess Powerful and even attempting to make a costume. Molly is possibly the most powerful of the Runaways, and she possesses super-strength and invulnerability. Using her powers exhausts her, however, and she becomes more tired the more she uses them.  Chase Stein (Gregg Sulkin), the only other male Runaways member, also has no superpowers, but has inherited his abusive parents’ knack for inventing technology. Sports-loving Chase is innately talented with machinery, which he can understand and manipulate without knowing quite how he does it. He has a pair of extremely powerful x-ray glasses, as well as a pair of gloves called the Fistigons, which are pyrokinetic and allow him to shape and shoot fire from his hands. For more information and to watch Marvel’s Runaways, visit the Showmax website. This article was published in partnership with Showmax.