Huawei recently unveiled its new P20 and P20 Pro, its latest flagship smartphones. The new devices were launched at an event held at the Grand Palais in Paris, France, where Huawei head of global marketing Clement Wong spoke to MyBroadband about the company’s approach towards its pricing. Wong said the company wants to give as many people as possible access to its high-end devices, and sets its pricing accordingly. “Our pricing allows people to experiment with the new technology offered by our devices,” said Wong. “We would like more people to try Huawei.” Wong said Huawei’s P20 and P20 Pro feature the latest technology, including the company’s Kirin 970 processor with built-in AI chip, and camera systems built in partnership with Leica. Huawei’s price strategy is evident in South Africa, where its devices are priced lower than Samsung and Apple flagship devices. The Huawei P20 is priced at R12,999 locally, compared the R15,499 and R15,999 price tags of the Samsung Galaxy S9 and iPhone 8 Plus respectively. These lower prices, along with the launch of Huawei’s mid-range Lite smartphones, have allowed the company to grow quickly in South Africa and around the world. The company saw massive growth in South Africa throughout 2017, and the country has become a major foothold for its expansion into Africa. The adoption of Huawei flagship devices in South Africa almost doubled in 2017, with Huawei’s share of the local premium smartphone market sitting at 13.8% by the end of the year, it said. Wong told MyBroadband that they aim to increase adoption by creating attractive pricing relative to other flagship devices on the market. He said that once customers had purchased a Huawei flagship device, they would not go back to other smartphone brands. “Once they use the P20 or P20 Pro, I can guarantee those customers will continue to use Huawei P-series smartphones going forward,” said Wong. “Our focus is on making great products, and our market share will grow along with the increasing adoption of our devices.”