Gigabyte Aero series has attracted media around the world since it was launched, further commented by world renowned editors as a “must have” laptop. This time, the AERO laptops takes an upgrade leap with all new Intel Core i7-8750H CPU, NVIDIA GeForce GTX 10 Graphics and a 144Hz refresh rate display with a bezel of only 5mm thin. All this, packed in a 1.8cm thin chassis. The All new AERO 15/15X stands out from the crowed with 144Hz Full HD IPS display, plus X-Rite Pantone calibration before leaving the factory. Users can experience the latest refresh display technology with a wide viewing angle that was once thought impossible, all with accurate colors. Add such display technology to a 5mm near-borderless display, what you get is the world’s first and best display combination found on a laptop.  The 8th Gen Intel Core i7-8750H is the choice for the new AERO series. A leap compared to the last generation i7-7700HQ, with a new Coffee Lake architecture that offers 6 cores of multitasking power, which results in a 50% performance gain tested with Cinebench R15. In the graphics department, the AERO series has continued to use the gaming performance GeForce GTX 10 graphics to satisfy any demanding needs.  Top of the line Dolby Atmos immersive audio is used for this upgrade. Dolby Atmos gives you a competitive edge, with audio heightens your sense of awareness and immerses you in a more intense gaming experience. You’ll hear the exact locations of enemies in three-dimensional space, so you can react with greater accuracy and speed. And new features like the Dolby Atmos control panel and Sound Radar visual overlay offer even more ways to tailor and enhance your Dolby Atmos gaming experience.  When it comes to power mobile users, laptop makers tends to sacrafice components in order to increae mobility and battery life. Gigabyte has further added a whopping 94.24 Wh battery, with almost twice the capacity compared to the norm , taking mobility to a whole new level.  For more information and to buy yours today click here. This article was published in partnership with Gigabyte.