Consumers have lodged complaints with the Advertising Standards Authority of South Africa (ASA) against Takealot’s Daily Deals discounts. One complainant said Takealot promoted the Logitech F310-Gamepad for R385 and provided the list price as R511. This equates to a discount of 33%. He said the real price of the item was in fact only R1 more than the discounted price, and not R126 as promoted. “If you add an item on a Daily Deals to your cart, and then increase the amount of that item in your cart, the system shows you the normal price for that item,” he said. He said the regular price is always lower than the list price used in Daily Deals and accused Takealot of inflating discounts to mislead consumers. This followed a previous complaint regarding a Berlinger Haus 9-Piece Marble Coating Cookware Set, where an item which was sold for R1,399 was promoted as having a normal price of R3,837. Takealot explained that the list price shown in respect of the Daily Deals is the recommended retail price suggested by the suppliers. “On 19 March 2018, the product’s (Logitech F310-Gamepad) list price was R578,” said Takealot. “The 33% saving is the saving applicable in terms of the list price and the deal price, which if calculated with regard to the abovementioned figures, is indeed a discount of 33%.” It added that the concept of the list price is clearly communicated to customers by way of a clickable information icon that appears wherever the term is mentioned on the website. The ASA said a customer is given an opportunity to access further information on what the prices listed on Takealot mean, by clicking on the information icon provided. The ASA also performed a search to verify the usual selling price of the product when it is sold in outlets other than Takealot and found that the price varies from R774 to R431. “It would therefore appear that the consumer is not being misled as to the actual value of the product,” said the ASA. The ASA therefore dismissed the complaint.