PC gaming hardware is more powerful than ever, and running titles at 4K is viable with the latest high-end graphics cards. Games are also becoming more advanced, however, demanding more powerful GPUs, better CPUs, and more storage space. While building a 4K gaming rig might sound like a lofty – and expensive – dream, improved components and single graphics cards can handle the demands of the high resolutions. Aiding the cause is that the demand for graphics cards from cryptocurrency miners has abated somewhat, following the slow deflation of the Bitcoin “bubble”. This means gamers can finally get a hold of high-end cards again. To see how much a 4K-ready gaming PC costs in South Africa in 2018, we put together a build on paper. The build includes an Nvidia GeForce GTX 1080 Ti, which can meet the demands of most 4K titles on the market. It also includes a powerful, multi-core processor to reduce potential bottlenecks and a chassis/motherboard combination large enough to accomodate upgrades. A SSD and mechanical hard disk are both included in the build to reduce boot times while offering large storage for games. The build above sports powerful hardware, including the Nvidia GeForce GTX 1080 Ti which can drive all but the most-demanding games at 60 frames per second. The SSD in the build will increase boot times for the operating system and if you want to increase your load times, you can always purchase a bigger SSD to store your games on. The AMD Ryzen CPU boasts six cores with 12 threads and is overclockable, making it a future-proof choice for a 4K gaming build. A 4K gaming machine requires a UHD monitor, obviously, preferably one with a variable refresh rate, and this adds a substantial amount to the total build price. Several 4K monitor options for South African gamers, ranging from entry-level to high-end, are detailed below. Driving a resolution of 3,840 x 2,160 generally requires expensive firepower, but the build above should have no problem delivering decent framerates in most titles.