As various price increases impact the pockets of South Africans negatively, some Mpumalanga residents will see savings as a result of the province’s first free Public Wi-Fi offering. In a South African first, a corporate entity is rolling out a free public Wi-Fi project in Mpumalanga’s Nkangala District Municipality. From 1 May, every resident and visitor to the region will be able to sign up for 250MB of free data per device absolutely free of charge – and for the same amount of data at the beginning of each consecutive month – courtesy of Nashua Mpumalanga. Should users run out of data during the course of the month they will be able to purchase an additional gig of data for R90 – a significant saving compared to MTN’s R160 and Vodacom and Cell C’s R149 – from Nashua Mpumalanga, either via a credit card or dedicated kiosks situated in each local municipality. South Africa has the dubious privilege of charging consumers amongst the highest data costs globally, higher than those of neighbouring countries like Mozambique, Lesotho and Malawi, and six times more expensive than Egypt. These high data costs are shackling economic development at a time when the country desperately needs to grow its economy in order to increase inclusivity and address crippling unemployment. Lack of competition and spectrum or infrastructure are cited as the two main reasons why the cost of data is unlikely to drop any time soon. According to a Mail and Guardian and Independent Communications Authority of South Africa (Icasa) debate on this issue, the high cost of voice and data services remain a stumbling block to business growth. According to community advocacy organisation, Amandla.mobi, the high cost of out of bundle data rates contributes to lower income households not benefiting from the online space. A City Press article published in March this year quoted a Tarrific report which found that data prices in South Africa in 2016 were, on average, 134% more expensive compared to other BRICS countries. Tarrific chief executive, Antony Seeff, told City Press earlier this month that there has been no major movement to reduce data prices since the report, particularly for low-value data bundles. Nashua Mpumalanga’s free Public Wi-Fi offering will be rolled out to all six municipalities in the Nkangala District Municipality, commencing 1 May. The six local municipalities making up the district include Victor Khanye, Emalahleni, Steve Tshwete, Emakhazeni, Thembisile Hani and Dr JS Moroka. Towns included in these municipalities are Delmas, Dullstroom, Emgwenya (Waterval Boven), Hendrina, Kriel, Kwa Mhlanga, Middelburg, Ogies, Phola, Pullenshope, Rietkuil, eMakhazeni, eMalahleni and eNtokozweni (Machadodorp). “The province has never had a public Wi-Fi offering before,” explains Mtho Xulu, a director at Nashua Mpumalanga who is spearheading the project in collaboration with Nkangala District Municipality. “This is a completely Greenfield project but it’s also only just the start. Our goal is to ultimately roll out the offering to the entire province.” In addition to its free Wi-Fi offering, Nashua Mpumalanga also aims to be the cheapest data provider in the province. “We recognise the need people have for free data and – once that has been used up – for reasonably priced data in a modern economy, given that it’s very hard to participate in the formal economy without access to data” says Nashua Mpumalanga MD, Junior van Niekerk. “Many of the province’s residents have not been able to access government services, complete online school applications or investigate job opportunities online as a result of insufficient data. Our intention is that this project will open up the economy for more people in Mpumalanga.” According to Xulu this is a proper public-private partnership with a genuine developmental goal, “and one which is not costing the municipality anything,” he says, adding that other so-called free public Wi-Fi offerings such as those offered in Tshwane are actually paid for by ratepayers. The Nkangala free public Wi-Fi offering, on the other hand, will be entirely privately funded by Nashua Mpumalanga. With 250GB of free data – per device – per month, the municipalities residents and visitors will be able to make WhatsApp calls – up to 300 minutes of VOIP calls; send and receive more than 8 500 emails; watch 150 minutes of video; send and receive up to 25 000 instant messages; or browse 84 webpages. Van Niekerk says the project forms part of Nashua Mpumalanga’s enterprise development goals as the kiosks where residents can purchase additional data will create jobs while the project will also broadcast the company’s name across the province. For more information, contact Nasua on solutions@nashua.co.za.  This article was published in partnership with Nashua.