Samsung has released an update to Android 8.0 “Oreo” for the Samsung Galaxy S8, and it has rolled out to devices in South Africa. Dubbed the “Samsung Experience 9.0” upgrade, the patch was a 1.4GB download and featured several security fixes and feature updates. These included patches to biometric security, changes to the notification tray and home screen, performance improvements, and new features like support for high-quality audio codecs over Bluetooth. The performance improvements were also particularly noticeable. Everyone who has owned a smartphone has experienced the phenomenon of their device being responsive when it’s new, then a few months down the line it doesn’t seem as quick as it used to. Apps don’t open as fast, for a start. After the upgrade to Android Oreo, however, my Galaxy S8 feels like new – even though my activity on it hasn’t changed. I still receive roughly a quadrillion push notifications a day from various messaging applications, and my background data consumption is about the same. According to the update’s changelog, background services have been limited to improve performance and battery life. Whatever they’ve done, it is working beautifully. In addition to the increase in performance, Samsung highlighted the following Android 8.0 updates – listed below. The upgrade brings Samsung Dual Messenger, introduced with the Galaxy Note 8, which lets you install a second copy of a messaging app so you can send messages from two accounts using the same device. Apps Dual Messenger supports include WhatsApp, Facebook, Facebook Messenger, Skype, Snapchat, WeChat, Telegram, Viber, and Line.  Features which use the fingerprint, iris scanning, and facial recognition features on the Galaxy S8 are now only available when you use a secure screen lock type – pattern, PIN, or password. When you switch to a non-secure screen lock type, biometric authentication will be suspended for unlocking and verification in apps like Samsung Pay and Samsung Pass. Those who use biometrics without a secure screen lock may continue to do so after the upgrade, but changing to a secure screen lock type is recommended. The upgrade also includes all the Android security patches up to 1 February 2018. You can now manage notifications for supported apps using notification categories. Icons are shown at the bottom of the notification panel for notifications that aren’t visible.  The Samsung Galaxy S8’s upgrade to Android Oreo includes the ability to press and hold on supported apps from a home screen to get a list of common or recommended tasks. This functions in much the same way as the Force Touch features on the iPhone, except it uses long press. Notification badges on app icons are now also linked to the notification panel. When you dismiss a notification from the panel, it will also be cleared on the app icon.  The Android 8.0 update includes several other changes and new features: 