Samsung’s Galaxy S9 and Galaxy S9+ have taken top honours as the best smartphones in 2018. A study released by Consumer Reports, put the Galaxy S9 in first place, both scoring a rating of 81/100. The mobile devices were rated according to handset capabilities (versatility, sensors, WLAN tethering, performance, storage, processor), battery life (battery consumption while performing tasks involving voice, data and display) and camera (rear image quality, still image quality using the main camera, resolution, dynamic range, colour accuracy and visual noise). The report praised the aesthetically pleasing front and back glass covers, the wireless charging capabilities, the durability of the units and the various camera features. In order to test the durability of the Samsung Galaxy S9 and S9+ smartphones, they were subjected to 100 drops into a large tumbler. This method of testing ensured that the smartphones struck the bottom of the machine at various angles in order to simulate a wide range of falls. Craige Fleisher, Vice President of Integrated Mobility Samsung South Africa, says, “The Samsung Galaxy S9 and S9+ are incredible pieces of technological innovation that absolutely changed the way people use their smartphones. Durable and stylish, both devices deserve the accolades they have received.” The Galaxy S9’s 3,000-mAh and the S9+’s 3,500-mAh batteries were put through their strides by using a robotic finger simulating a consumer’s average day. The robot browsed the internet, took pictures, streamed video, used GPS navigation and made phone calls. The Galaxy S9’s battery lasted 22.5 hours while the Samsung Galaxy S9+ went for 24 hours, which is more than enough battery power to last throughout the day. The overall processing speed, thanks to Samsung equipping the devices with the latest exynos processor, sees “apps open in a snap and mobile websites load quickly”, the report stated. “The Samsung Galaxy S9 and S9+ offer improved security features, super slow-motion video and a camera that can turn your image into a personalised emoji,” Consumer Reports added. In the end, it was durability, faster processing and top-quality sound that saw Samsung leading the field. While the Galaxy S9 and S9+ dominated the top two spots, the Galaxy S8 ranked third with 80/100 overall points and followed by the Galaxy S8+ (79/100) in fifth place. “We are thrilled with the results of this report and it proves what Samsung believes, to develop technology which provides mobile users with the features and latest tech they demand while making their lives easier,” concludes Fleisher. This article was published in partnership with Samsung.