For too long, Tuesdays have carried a bad reputation. Often considered a terrible sequel to blue Mondays, and seen as the second best day to put everything off until later in the week, Tuesdays have been yearning for something incredible to make them great in the eyes of many South Africans. Bidvest Burchmore’s is that something incredible, as the auction house introduces its Make It Yours Tuesday Car Auctions! Every Tuesday, starting 10 April 2018, Bidvest Burchmore’s will give you the chance to make that perfect car yours. For over nine decades, Bidvest Burchmore’s has been bringing vehicle sellers and vehicle buyers together. As one of the biggest vehicle remarketing companies in South Africa, they are considered a market leader in the automotive auction industry. Car auctions may have had a negative connotation in the past, but with an average of 15,000 vehicles auctioned every year, Bidvest Burchmore’s is here to allay any fears you may have regarding auctions. Never been to an auction before? Then they encourage you to attend their auctions, which take place every Tuesday and Saturday, as an observer. This will help you familiarise yourself with the auction and bidding process, with their team members close by to assist with any other queries. Ready to bid on your perfect car? Then you’ll be glad to know they offer you the opportunity to finance it through South Africa’s major banks. They also upload vehicle auction lists and catalogues prior to every auction, letting you know exactly which vehicles will be on offer come auction day. Make that perfect car yours, every Tuesday, at Bidvest Burchmore’s. For those who’d like to get their auction bidding done on the weekend, worry not. Every Saturday, Bidvest Burchmore’s hosts their Bank Repo Car Auctions, with an immense variety of vehicles to choose from. The time to Make It Yours is now. Find your perfect car, at your perfect price, only at Bidvest Burchmore’s! For more information on the next Bidvest Burchmore’s auction, visit http://www.bidvestburchmores.co.za/auctions. This article was published in partnership with Bidvest Burchmore's.