Wayne D’sa became CipherWave managing director in 2015. Although he has always worked in the IT field, it was a call from a recruiter in 2002 which started a career path in the telecoms market. D’sa started his career as a junior PC engineer at CEB Maintenance in Durban, where he earned R4,500 per month. He started out in the workshop, refurbishing Oki Dot Metric Printers, UltraPos keyboards, and IBM 4683 point of sale computers. In 2002, a recruiter called D’sa about a networking support role for an ISP called UUNET, and he joined the company as a network support engineer. This move into the telecommunications and Internet market ultimately lead to him becoming MD of CipherWave. D’sa told MyBroadband his rise to the top was mostly down to hard work, and understanding how the entire business works. “At UUNET, I started at the support desk as a network support engineer and then worked my way up, moving through sales and eventually getting into management,” he said. “I also participated in programmes which the company put together, which gave me a platform to network with people in other teams and regions.” He said his interest in business and his problem-solving ability presented career-advancing opportunities to him. To those who want to advance their career, D’sa said it is important to have a view of where you want to go. “Research the role and thereafter surround yourself with like-minded people. Also, don’t be shy to get involved in programmes that the company is offering,” he said. He added that it is important to get exposure to all areas of a business, as this will broaden your horizon.  Which smartphone do you use? iPhone 7. Which laptop do you use? Dell XPS i7. What is the best gadget you have ever bought? Apple iPad 2. What is the worst gadget you have ever bought? I-mate Pocket PC. What Internet connection do you have at home? Rain LTE. I am currently waiting for Vumatel to complete their fibre install in my suburb. What is the best investment you have ever made? Buying our first property with my wife. It helped towards purchasing our next home. What is the worst investment you have ever made? Paying off my primary car when I was much younger. You learn quickly that vehicles depreciate in value, so you can never really recover the initial investment. What is the best business book you have ever read? South Africa’s Greatest Entrepreneurs by Moky Makura, Zero to One by Peter Thiel, and The Go Getter by Peter B Kyne.