Several people who bought products on special during Black Friday did not receive their items in time for Christmas. Makro sent out a notice at the end of November to warn customers of potential delays. A few weeks later, some shoppers had still not received their deliveries and Makro said it was working hard to fulfil online orders. “Our Black Friday order volume exceeded our forecasts and we are working both day and night shifts to make sure our customers get their orders as soon as possible,” said Makro. “We have also arranged additional transport capacity to fulfil orders.” However, in the days before Christmas customers told MyBroadband that their deliveries had still not arrived. “Since we alerted affected customers to the potential delays, we have been working hard to fulfil all outstanding orders,” said Makro eCommerce executive Paul van de Waal. “We are happy to say that with the exception of a very small percentage of orders we have been able to catch up the backlog.” “The remaining orders are being handled on a case-by-case basis and we are contacting customers directly to agree to substitutions or the removal of items from orders that may be causing the delay,” said Van de Waal. “In a small number of cases we have had to refund customers where our suppliers have been unable to meet the demand,” he added. Makro was not the only retailer where clients experienced delivery delays on products bought during Black Friday. Game said that its new website had no downtime during Black Friday, but several factors contributed to delays on the delivery of items. “The delay of the delivery of items purchased on this day were caused by the fact that SABC integration went down, therefore the TV licence validation process could not be completed,” Game said. “Consequently all TV orders went into a TV On Hold status, this resulted in customers’ orders not being released to the warehouse for fulfilment timeously.” Manual EFT payments also contributed to delays, as the number of orders placed using the system exceeded expectations. According to Game, this resulted in many orders requiring manual reconciliation with its bank and resulted in additional delays. “This has resulted in us adding 15 trucks to our fleet to expedite deliveries,” the retailer said. “Additionally, we set up the Game Online Support Call Centre which is dedicated to handling outstanding online orders.”