Wenn Digital and Kodak recently unveiled KODAKOne, a rights management platform aimed at photographers. The platform will run on a blockchain and will use its own cryptocurrency, called KODAKCoin. Once its cryptocurrency for photographers is up and running, Wenn Digital would like to add value to its image rights platform through revenue sharing and rewards systems, the company told MyBroadand. Photographers will be able to register their ownership of images in KODAKOne’s encrypted ledger, then license their work through the platform. Shortly after the announcement, however, reports emerged linking Wenn Digital to another photography-based cryptocurrency startup called RYDE coin. RYDE was intended to expand the licensing business of paparazzi photo company Wenn Media, a subsidiary of Wenn Digital, Ars Technica reported. RYDE’s page on the crowdfunding site Start Engine was removed around the time of the Kodak announcement, though, as the company aims to cater to a wider range of photographers. In addition to offering a platform for photographers to monetise their work, KODAKOne will also act as an intellectual property monitoring service. KODAKOne will continually crawl the web to monitor whether images used online and registered in its database are licensed properly. “We have that photographer in mind who doesn’t know how their images are being used,” said Wenn Digital. “They gave the rights to their agency, and their agency distributes the rights around the world.” KODAKOne aims to make rights distribution more traceable for agencies, and offer creators an extra layer of security. “So that you know that art you have created is protected and that you are being rewarded for it,” it said. Wenn said it will also look at adding further value to KODAKCoin by offering revenue share and other services on KODAKOne. This includes enabling commerce using its cryptocurrency and allowing photographers to make purchases with KODAKCoin, such as buying equipment or booking a venue that participates on the platform. Wenn will use the Ethereum blockchain or a variant thereof for its platform, so that it can use the smart contracting functionality it offers. It declined to provide information on how many coins it will issue or how they will be distributed, saying those details will be disclosed in a forthcoming white paper. It did state that its initial coin offering will be used to develop and fund the KODAKOne platform. The initial coin offering for KODAKCoin will open on 31 January, and is open to accredited investors from the US, UK, Canada, and several other countries. It will use tZERO’s security platform and follow its roadmap to offer a security token in accordance with US federal securities law requirements. Following the launch, KODAKCoin will be available for trade on the tZERO trading platform. The parties expect to launch the token during Q1 2018.