According to the Cisco 2017 Security Capabilities Benchmark Study, organisations that have not yet suffered a security breach may believe their networks are safe. Given that 49% of security professionals surveyed said that their organisations have had to manage public scrutiny following a security breach, is this confidence misplaced? Cybersecurity is a hot topic, both in the media and the boardroom and in order to ensure that South African enterprises are suitably prepared to meet the threats of today and tomorrow, In2IT and Cisco have partnered to present ‘Security in 2018’ on the 24th of January 2018 at the Houghton Golf Club in Johannesburg. “The theme for this year’s event is ‘Know what’s coming’ and this is important obviously because forewarned is forearmed” explains Vikas Kapoor, Practice Head of Cyber Security and GRC at In2IT Tech. “We intended to cut through the hype and hysteria around security and take a realistic approach to risks and challenges in the industry in 2018,” says Kapoor. Kapoor filtered out all the noise with discussions on real risks that will have a practical impact on local business in the near future. CIOs, CTOs, CEOs and other stakeholders and decision-makers from across South Africa are interested in gaining insight on global trends and risks and how these will be applied in a local context. Attendees gained valuable insights from four incredible speakers, starting with In2IT’s CTO, Vishal Barapatre, who discussed the often -overlooked aspect of security: awareness. A vital topic, given that security is only as effective as its weakest link. The second session featured Cisco’s Woman of the Year, Charmaine Houvet, and she explored IT in today’s context and how it’s shaping lives. “As organisations in South Africa increasingly embrace digitization, they will need to take a holistic approach to cybersecurity that ensures it is elevated to a business-level priority and its importance is instilled throughout the organisational culture,” said Tinus Janse van Rensburg, Regional Manager of Security, Cisco Africa. “Our aim at this year’s event is to arm attendees from across industries with practical advice and deep insights to help them stay ahead of evolving threats well into the future.” Vikas Kapoor from In2IT shared his view on security in 2018, touching on the technologies that are going to be relevant in the near future. “I wanted to talk about topics that affect South African companies, covering deception technology, and what this means for business. We also discussed the impact of security skills shortage and the need for women in security. We took a look at how threat intelligence systems are going to become very relevant and discussed how the security operations centre is going to be optimised in 2018,” Kapoor shares. The fourth speaker, Tinus Janse van Rensburg then showcased Cisco’s game changer portfolio for security, after which dinner and drinks were served. “We are proud and excited to partner with Cisco on such an important event around cybersecurity in South Africa. I think that local organisations will benefit from our partnership, because it is the unification of two industry titans. On the one hand, businesses are getting a global leader like Cisco when it comes to security and on the other, In2IT is an incredibly strong systems integrator. Bringing the two together provides clients with the ideal mix of global strength, with local relevance,” Kapoor concludes. In2IT is a global technology services firm focused on providing IT Consultancy, Application Development and Maintenance, Technology Infrastructure Services, Programme and Project Management as well as Future Edge Services to its Clientele. The company constantly anticipates the rapidly changing technology landscape and the impact on clients. In2IT features technology practitioners who work alongside its customers to help streamline processes, ensure optimal usage of deployed solutions and deliver a high-performance customer-centric service. The company is driven by a passion to build innovative businesses for its clients. Its experience shows that if the company serves its clients well, its own growth will follow.  With more than 80 global customers, In2IT strives to be the first choice for world’s best talents. Through its internal In2IT Academy, the company is committed to continuous learning and giving its practitioners freedom to innovate. In2IT is present across 9 cities in South Africa with more than 60% of its staff complement comprising local nationals. The company has an Africa Innovation Centre in Illovo, Johannesburg, South Africa focused on Social Media, Mobility, Analytics and Cloud (SMAC) and Remote Infrastructure Management (RIM). In2IT is a CMMI Level 3, ISO 9001:2008, ISO 27000 and ISO 20000-1 certified company.