Facebook Inc., which is cutting the amount of news in its news feed, will prioritize information from the publishers that remain on the social network by measuring how trustworthy they are, the company said. Trustworthiness is based on a recent survey of U.S. Facebook users that gauged their familiarity with, and trust in, different sources of news. The results will inform the company’s ranking in the news feed, a stream of updates people see when they log in. News sources should also be “informative” and relevant to people’s local communities, the company said in a statement Friday. The move helps Facebook avoid perceptions of bias in selecting what news providers to highlight. “The hard question we’ve struggled with is how to decide what news sources are broadly trusted in a world with so much division,” Chief Executive Officer Mark Zuckerberg wrote in a Facebook post on Friday. “We could try to make that decision ourselves, but that’s not something we’re comfortable with.” Publishers expressed concern about the news feed changes announced last week because many news sites have come to depend on traffic from Facebook. On Friday, Zuckerberg said he expects news to make up roughly 4 percent of the news feed, down from roughly 5 percent today. “This is a big change, but news will always be a critical way for people to start conversations on important topics,” he added. Facebook, which has come under fire for the spread of fake news on its service, recently said it will reduce the amount of content from brands and other company pages — including those run by publishers — in the news feed. That move refocuses the company on content from friends and family members, taking Facebook back to its roots, but it could mean less time spent on the site, Zuckerberg said last week. The social network has had trouble managing its role as one of the world’s most powerful news distributors. Ahead of the U.S. presidential election in 2016, Facebook was criticized for bias because its human curators of a “Trending Topics” section were only allowed to pick links from a set of sources Facebook designated as trusted, which excluded some conservative sites. Since then, the company has sought to address the spread of fake news while trying to avoid being the arbiter of what is true or false. It works with third-party fact checkers who look at articles flagged by users as potentially false or misleading. Those efforts have had little impact on the overall problem. Facebook Inc.’s plan to rank news sources by their trustworthiness boosted the shares of New York Times Co. — one of the top winners in President Donald Trump’s “Fake News Awards.” The publisher’s shares jumped 8.4 percent to $21.90, the highest price in more than a decade, after Facebook Chief Executive Officer Mark Zuckerberg announced the plan in a post Friday. The social network will survey users on whether they’re familiar with a news source and whether they the trust the outlet, Zuckerberg said. Notwithstanding the president’s animosity, the Times has been a beneficiary of the Trump presidency, with subscriptions up 60 percent in September from a year earlier to 2.5 million. Republicans took the newspaper to task this week in their list of reporting they considered inaccurate, criticizing columnist Paul Krugman’s predictions of economic catastrophe and a story that the administration had buried a report on climate change. How the Times fares in Facebook’s ratings system will be a big test, since it’s one of the country’s most respected journalistic institutions and a lightning rod for conservatives who say it’s biased. Other news organizations will also have to sort out how Zuckerberg’s plan affects them. “What we don’t know is how the proposed system to identify trusted news sources will really work,” said David Chavern, CEO of the NewsMedia Alliance, a group of about 2,000 organizations pressing for a larger share of the revenue their content generates on the social-media service. “We will be watching that very closely as the changes are rolled out.”