The holiday season is upon us, which means more spending by consumers. From buying gifts to booking holidays, you’re likely to be spending more money online than usual. Unfortunately for you, cybercriminals are aware of this. According to a report by Carbon Black, cyberattacks on organisations increased by nearly 60% during the 2017 festive season. As a result, it’s incredibly important that you are aware of the ways cybercriminals attack consumers during the December holidays. Here are some of the cybercrimes that you should protect yourself from this festive season. Phishing is the process of posing as a trusted organisation or entity with the purpose of tricking people into giving these criminals personal information such as banking details and log-in details. During the holiday season, consumers are hunting for gifts and holiday opportunities, which means that they are often quick to jump at offers that seemingly provide fantastic value. However, cybercriminals use this opportunity to manipulate eager deal-seekers into providing their personal details, which can then be used for various malicious purposes. It is crucial that you are vigilant this holiday season to avoid being caught out by phishing schemes. Always double check that the source of a deal or email is legitimate, and if anyone asks you for personal information, even if they seem legitimate, don’t provide this information online. Another trick scammers use is to try to get you to click on a specific link, claiming that it is a pathway to getting a particularly good deal. In truth, these scammers are baiting Internet users into clicking on these links for their own malicious reasons. There are many ways that scammers can use this technique to attack victims’ computers. One of these is through the installation of keylogging malware, which tracks each key you press on your keyboard. Through this, scammers can learn your usernames and passwords, allowing them to access your online accounts and make purchases, draw money, and much more. Another way that these links can be used is to create a backdoor into your computer. This allows the scammer to access the data on your computer, which opens up endless opportunities to these malicious parties. A top tip: If a deal seems too good to be true, it probably is. Phishing and malware links are just two examples of how scammers will be looking to attack your online profiles and accounts this holiday season. Vigilance is incredibly important; however, even the most careful users can be caught out by scammers. That’s why it’s important to get comprehensive cover against cybercrime. Cyber Insure will cost you just R99 per month, and offers cover for cyber theft (including online identity theft), cyber liability, cyber bullying, and the recovery of lost data. Click here to learn more. This article was published in partnership with Partner.