17 out of the 67 subjects that formed part of the Department of Basic Education’s matric exams have had their marks adjusted upwards. Umalusi released this statistic today ahead of the release of matric results on 4 January 2019. In 2017, 16 subjects were adjusted upwards – about a quarter of all subjects written. According to DA Shadow Minister of Basic Education, Nomsa Marchesi, serious questions must be raised about the management of the National Senior Certificate (NSC) exams. “Unfortunately, we have no idea how large these adjustments are,” said Marchesi in a press release. “Umalusi hides this information from the public, and refuses to allow elected Members of Parliament to attend the standardisation meeting.” She added that anyone who questions the nature of Umalusi’s adjustments is accused of trying to disrupt and attack the school system. “Protecting the quality of the matric certificate is vital to ensuring that young South Africans can study further or secure a job after school,” said Marchesi. According to Umalusi chairperson John Volmink, there were no adjustments made in subjects such as Maths, Life Sciences, and Physics. Volmink added that Umalusi detected no systemic irregularities during the 2018 exams. However, he said that the release of results in the first week of January should be reconsidered moving forward due to how taxing it is on the process. Mark adjustments are just a small part of a bigger basic education problem in South Africa. Former University of Free State vice-chancellor Jonathan Jansen said that “passing Grade 12 in South Africa is actually quite easy, and it means very little.” MyBroadband recently reported on how the standard of maths exams has dropped over the past 20 years, with teachers and lecturers alike saying that they are of a lower standard today. “The curriculum is wide, but not deep enough,” said the HOD of the Wits School of Mathematics, Professor Betsie Jonck. Below are the NSC result adjustment statistics from 2012 to this year.