Bitcoin and other major cryptocurrencies have experienced a steady rout throughout 2018, losing up to 80% of their value during the year. While this has been a major blow to long-term investors and traders, it has also dramatically affected the profit of cryptocurrency miners. A recent report found that at least 100,000 individual miners had shut down their ventures as they were no longer profitable. This phenomenon has two major side-effects. Firstly, the overall hash rate of major cryptocurrencies such as Ethereum and Bitcoin is decreased substantially, technically making them more vulnerable to attack. Secondly, second-hand models of the hardware used to mine cryptocurrency are flooding back onto the market. The result is seen on South African classified boards and online retailers which sell cryptocurrency mining equipment – very cheap graphics cards. Earlier this year, AMD graphics cards commanded a high premium due to their impressive cryptocurrency mining capabilities as well as their gaming performance. This made them both difficult to find and expensive to buy in South Africa, but this has changed substantially as Bitcoin and other tokens have continued to plummet. AMD Radeon RX 580 graphics cards – one of the most popular GPUs among miners – can now be found at an attractive price from various local retailers, while the second-hand pricing of these cards is truly low. PC classified forum Carbonite is currently flooded with graphics cards previously used in mining rigs, and the number of AMD GPUs has led to dramatic price drops. The same is true for second-hand AMD Radeon graphics cards listed on Bitmart, with cards retailing for extremely cheap prices. Many users have dropped the price they are willing to sell a graphics card for substantially, with Radeon RX 580 GPUs selling for between R1,500-R2,000. MyBroadband previously purchased a cryptocurrency mining rig equipped with Radeon RX 580 4GB graphics cards – which has long since been dismantled. After contemplating selling the cards, we realised we would only be able to get around R3,000 collectively for two cards – which is not even enough to buy an Nvidia GeForce GTX 1050 Ti. This flood of used graphics cards is great news for gamers on a budget, but bad news for miners looking to recoup their losses. However, gamers should be wary before purchasing a graphics card previously used in a cryptocurrency mining rig. In many cases, mining cryptocurrency with a graphics card voids the manufacturer’s warranty – meaning you will not be able to get the GPU fixed if anything goes wrong. Local suppliers are aware of the prevalence of mining, and started testing cards more rigorously to determine whether they have been used for mining. Additionally, you should stress test the GPU you are purchasing before you buy it, as cryptocurrency mining may have caused the chip to become unstable under heavy workloads. Be sure to test the GPU thoroughly and look for signs of unstable performance or physical damage.