Video game sales have reached record highs in 2018, with October 2018 sales being the highest October sales in the gaming industry’s history. Additionally, spending on video game hardware, software, accessories, and game cards increased by 21% compared to the same period a year ago. A variety of fantastic games were released this year, which drove consumer spending. Ranging from huge gaming franchises to small indie games, there has been something for every gamer in 2018. Here are the top 10 games of 2018, as ranked by Metacritic. This action game places you in the centre of an island that is seemingly cursed. After an alchemy experiment goes wrong, you must survive in a 2D world that pits you against a variety of tough opponents and allows you lots of rooms and passages to explore.  This Nintendo Switch release allows gamers to relive the good old days of gaming. Refreshing one of gaming’s most iconic characters, the updated version of the Sega classic allows you to roll, spin, and hop to your heart’s content.  This puzzle game was released for Nintendo Switch this year, and utilises a minimalist design to tell its story. A young boy finds himself stuck in the middle of a dark project, and must try his best to avoid those trying to hunt him.  Another game that joined the Nintendo Switch family, Bayonetta 2 is an engaging action game that has made the move across consoles with ease. Play as “butt-kicking, havoc-wreaking witch” Bayonetta, who uses everything from pistols to hammers to decimate her opponents.  Racing game franchise Forza released one of the best games in its history this year. There are over 450 cars to collect as you compete to become the best racer.  Divinity: Original Sin II is set 1,000 years after the original game, and rather than searching for forbidden magic, you are a sorcerer yourself. In this RPG, you must escape Fort Joy, before finding a way to save the world from being consumed by the Void.  Popular RPG Undertale is another new entry to the Nintendo Switch, and was incredibly popular on the handheld console. You play as someone who has fallen underground into a world full of monsters. Your goal is to find a way out.  This hand-crafted platformer follows the journey of Madeleine as she looks to climb Celeste Mountain. IGN labeled its jumping and dashing playability as “best-in-class,” while simultaneously praising the story and soundtrack.  The hugely-popular God of War franchise released its latest addition to the series to critical acclaim. Kratos now lives in a Norse world, and fights to survive while simultaneously mentoring his son. Key to the game’s narrative is Kratos’ opportunity to master his rage and fix his past shortcomings.  The much-awaited sequel to the popular Red Dead Redemption was a tremendous success. The Western-themed title is set in 1899 America, and is centered around Arthur Morgan and the Van der Linde gang. After a robbery goes wrong, they are forced to run, and must fight and rob to stay alive. 