Telkom recently announced that it would implement functionality on its network to facilitate the transfer of mobile data between users. The mobile operator also said it would increase the validity of data bundles up to 500MB in size. These changes align Telkom’s mobile offering with the latest End-User and Subscriber Service Charter Regulations from ICASA. The regulations also prohibit all mobile networks from charging subscribers for out-of-bundle usage without consent, a blocking measure which Telkom has employed for some time now to prevent customers from unintentionally using out-of-bundle data. To test the new tools, we purchased a new prepaid SIM from a Telkom store on 1 December and activated it. The SIM was purchased on the standard Telkom More tariff. On 3 December, we purchased 500MB of mobile data through an online banking app and set up our test to transfer the data. It should be noted that Telkom data bundles which are 25MB-500MB in size are now valid for six months, and after a portion of the data bundle is sent to another number, it should retain its expiry date. In this case, 1 July 2019. Below is a breakdown of the data transfer process. Telkom prepaid and contract customers can transfer data to other customers by accessing the “Transfer” option (No. 3) in the *180# Telkom USSD menu. From this menu, users can choose to send data bundles and will need to input the cellphone number of the recipient before selecting the amount of data to transfer. After selecting the data transfer option and entering the Telkom number, we were presented with a menu detailing daily and monthly transfer limits. Telkom customers have a daily data transfer limit of 1GB and a monthly limit of 10GB. After choosing to continue, we selected which bundle we would like to transfer data from, and then chose to transfer 250MB to our recipient. Within a minute, the recipient number received an SMS notification confirming receipt of the data bundle and the data’s expiry date. We also received an SMS which detailed our remaining balance as well as the remaining monthly limit for data transfer. We encountered no problems with the data transfer system on Telkom, and were impressed by the speed and ease of sending data to another user vis USSD.  