2018 saw the release of games from the most recognisable franchises. These included Bethesda’s Fallout 76, Rockstar Games’ Red Dead Redemption 2, and Sony’s God of War. 2019 promises to be another bumper year for gamers, with a wide variety of fantastic titles set to be released. We have listed some of the most anticipated games of 2019 below. The third installation in the Metro franchise is a story-driven first person shooter set in post-apocalyptic Moscow. Players will control Artyom, and will lead a group of Spartan Rangers across the Asian continent in search of a better life. The original Metro game, Metro 2033, was a huge success in 2010, prompting the release of a sequel, Metro: Last Light, three years later.  Tom Clancy’s The Division was incredibly popular, and scored an 8/10 rating from Gamespot. The sequel, The Division 2, is slated to be released on 15 March 2019, and reportedly offers a wide variety of new improvements on the original. Situated in Washington D.C., your job as an agent of a secret government sleeper group The Division is to help restore order to the US capital.  10 years after Devil May Cry 4 was released, Capcom has finally released the fifth entry in the franchise. A new demonic threat is entering the world, when a tree takes root in Red Grave City. This tree releases evil legions onto a nearby town, who are blissfully unaware of the threat at their door. Devil May Cry 5 will feature three playable characters – series favourites Nero and Dante, as well as mysterious V.  Respawn Entertainment will be releasing a new Star Wars game at the end of 2019. Set between the third and fourth episodes of the Star Wars movies, this game will involve the hunting down of surviving Jedi. Not much is known about the game yet, but we do know that it will centre around a surviving Padawan.  Gears of War is soon to be back in its fifth iteration, and The Coalition is looking to make sweeping changes with this latest release. Based upon footage from E3, characters will be speedier, and will offer better hand to hand combat. The story is focused on Kait, and will follow her as she travels with Marcus and Del on a journey to find answers from her past.  The prequel to Wolfenstein III will be a co-op game featuring B.J. Blazkowicz’s twin daughters. The game is set in 1980s Paris, and you will play as one of Blazkowicz’s daughters as you seek to fight against the Third Reich, while simultaneously searching for your missing father. While the game is designed with co-op available, players can also choose to play solo if they prefer. 