Many Cell C customers are complaining about problems with Internet connectivity, slow throughput, and dropped calls. These complaints followed a voice and data network outage on Saturday 1 December which left Cell C subscribers without mobile services. Cell C said the outage was caused by a power surge, due to load shedding, at the Neotel Data Centre where some of its network equipment is hosted. This tripped the air-conditioning and resulted in the Multi-Protocol Label Switching (MPLS) system, that enables the routing of traffic on the network, to overheat and power down. Cell C added that they subsequently deployed additional generators, and that their equipment had been restored. While Cell C said all services have been restored, many subscribers are now complaining about poor data connectivity and throughput. One Cell C subscriber told MyBroadband that “the Internet is broken”, and that Cell C told him the current problems are related to the outage on Saturday. Users who complained on Twitter about poor network performance were also told by Cell C that load-shedding had resulted in a number of network sites going down. When asked by a user if the sites were back up, the Cell C account stated that “the restoration of services can take a while”. “Unfortunately, we wouldn’t be able to advise when exactly services will be back up,” stated the account. Users of MVNOs running on the Cell C network have also complained of downtime, including FNB Connect customers. Cell C was asked for official comment on the matter, but it did not reply to questions about its network problems. The graph below, which is based on network performance data from MyBroadband’s speed test app, shows the Cell C network performance over the last few days. The graph uses an average network performance (in kbps) over a rolling 3-day period, which clearly indicates the problems which started on 1 December and continue to persist.  The conversation below from Cell C blames load-shedding and site outages for the recent network problems. 