Huawei recently announced its latest flagship smartphone, the Mate 20 Pro, which is competing with top-end devices like the iPhone XS Max and the Galaxy Note 9. The Mate 20 Pro is jam-packed with features, including an in-screen fingerprint sensor and wireless phone-to-phone charging. The design of the new Mate 20 Pro is also in line with the latest trends in the premium smartphone market. Perhaps the best feature of the Mate 20 Pro, however, is its phenomenal camera. But how does it compare to other top-end smartphones? The Mate 20 Pro’s triple-lens camera blow the competition out of the water thanks to Huawei’s partnership with leading lens manufacturer Leica. The Note 9 offers a 12MP, f/1.5-4.2, 26mm wide lens. The XS Max’s wide lens, meanwhile, is a 12MP, f/1.8, 26mm offering. In contrast, the Mate 20 Pro offers an astonishing 40MP, f/1.8, 27mm wide lens. Both the Note 9 and XS Max offer 12MP, f/2.4, 52mm telephoto lenses. The Mate 20 Pro, however, offers a telephoto lens with a superior 80mm focal length. What truly sets the Mate 20 Pro’s camera apart, however, is that it has a third, ultrawide lens. This ultrawide lens is a 20MP, f/2.2, 16mm offering that allows for superior landscape photography. The selfie camera of the Mate 20 Pro also dominates the competition. While the Note 9 offers an 8MP, f/1.7, 25mm lens, the XS Max offers a 7MP, f2.2, 32mm alternative. In contrast, however, the Mate 20 Pro offers a powerful 24MP, f/2.0, 26mm lens – allowing you to take crisp, beautiful selfies. While the Mate 20 Pro’s lenses dominate the competition, it is the remarkable AI software working alongside these lenses that makes the Mate 20 Pro such a fantastic photography device. One example of this is AI Colour, which enables the camera system to isolate human subjects from their surroundings, desaturating this background to place the focus firmly on the person. The AI-powered camera system also uses its ability to detect humans for the purpose of dynamically adjusting its camera settings depending on the type of photograph being taken. This allows you to snap the perfect picture with minimal effort. The Mate 20 Pro also allows users to implement a selection of intelligent filters before taking a picture. These aren’t limited to photographs, either – video recording also benefits from these tools. These features, combined with the Mate 20 Pro’s incredible Leica lenses, mean that the Mate 20 Pro should be your smartphone of choice if you plan on using your smartphone to take pictures – whether they’re every-day snaps or professional portraits. Find comparisons between photographs from the Huawei Mate 20 Pro, Samsung Galaxy Note 9, and iPhone Xs Max below.      This article was published in partnership with Huawei Mobile.