With all the many service providers out there, it’s difficult to identify which provider is the best. While many start by comparing prices, most don’t even understand some of the big words that providers use these days. Everyone is looking for pure, fast, and reliable fibre Internet. This is where Innovo Networks come in. “We purely focus on providing the ultimate and the best internet connectivity solutions,” said Innovo Networks. Innovo strives to be fully transparent to build great and long-lasting customer relationships for years to come, by focusing on keeping easy, short, and to the point contracts for all our customers and clients. “We offer extremely low latency on our Internet creating our highly loved business class Internet quality,” said Innovo. “Inside our contracts, we specify that all customers receive a 99% SLA with free monthly reporting. To be transparent, every business must prove to their customers that the product will live up to their expectations. With our reporting system, the SLA includes a guaranteed uptime.” Innovo offers true uncapped and unshaped Internet, so your Internet will never be throttled, or timed out. With Innovo you can experience the true meaning of unshaped Internet with their extremely competitive pricing. “We offer the best, for less! All our coverage checks are done for free and our face-to-face scoping sessions as well,” said Innovo Networks. Innovo also consults all customers before following any procedures. “We focus on scoping the perfect solution for all our customers so that they only pay for what they really need, while still providing them with the best fibre ever,” the company added. “Every product we sell is purely customer centric based, while making it as personal and fitting as possible,” Innovo said. “And for all the businesses out there, our Internet reliability is there to ensure that your business performs in the most productive and efficient way ever.” Innovo’s business class solutions also offers fail-over safes for those who cannot afford a single second without connectivity. All the ifs and elses covered for the most affordable price in business Internet solutions. Want to find out more on you can join Innovo? Get in touch with them today via our WhatsApp business number: +2779 594 7788, or connect with them via email: info@innovonet.co.za. Feel free to call them on (021) 811 3333 should you want immediate contact with one of their sales consultants. This article was published in partnership with Innovo Networks.