2018 has witnessed the release of various new smart 4K TVs from a variety of the world’s top technology brands. 4K TVs have continued to become the standard for high-quality viewing, and brands like Samsung, LG, and Hisense have been working hard to outshine each other. This has benefited consumers, who get access to better TVs due to this competition. Top picks in the 4K smart TV market from this year are listed below. The 65-inch Samsung Q9FN QLED offers over a billion colours and shades, ensuring a phenomenal viewing experience. The device also boasts direct full array technology, which delivers zone-specific backlighting that adjusts automatically. SmartThings also allows you to control a variety of smart home devices through your Q9FN.  The LG C8 range, which comes in 55-inch, 65-inch, and 78-inch variants, takes the popular C7 range and improves upon it in subtle, yet successful, ways. Included in this device is LG’s new Alpha 9 processor, which helps the C8 to power its various smart functions. Additionally, its new design is devoid of a bezel, instead utilising a simple trim around the edge of the screen. The LG C8 series is powered by LG’s WebOS, and makes navigating between the various functions and apps simple.  Just like the C8, the W8 sports LG’s new Alpha 9 processor, meaning that it can run a range of smart features with ease. Additionally, the W8 OLED is equipped with Google Assistant. The W8 OLED TV includes a 4.2 Dolby Atmos soundbar, providing good sound quality, and the screen measures only 2.57mm thick.  Featuring Dolby Vision HDR and HDR-10, the H10E series is compatible with both Google Assistant and Alexa. This Smart TV is controlled by Android TV, and supports a range of apps. In terms of the display, the H10E sports over 1,000 backlight zones, and also features Quantum Dot technology.  The Hisense 100-inch 4K Ultra HD Smart Laser TV offers premium viewing. Utilising precision laser light technology, this TV displays images that are noticeably true-to-life, said its makers. It also uses HDR and MEMC technology to improve the picture detail and reduce blur. 