Many Telkom customers have complained about issues trying to cancel their accounts, with some being unable to process their cancellations for months on end. Telkom recently moved to a new cancellation system, leaving many customers confused as to how to proceed when trying to cancel their products. The company uses the same unified system for account cancellation to accommodate all of its products, from ADSL lines to LTE packages. Users have encountered issues when attempting to cancel their products, however, with Telkom staff stating that their cancellation query will be escalated to no avail. Cancelling an account has therefore proved to be a prolonged and inefficient process for many, often resulting in billing issues. We have outlined Telkom’s recommended cancellation process below, along with the possible issues customers may encounter. Telkom has stated that customers should cancel their products via its online self-service portal. Log in with your account credentials on the Telkom website and access the My Profile menu. From this menu, customers should select the Manage Accounts option to view their existing Telkom subscriptions and select the Cancel option on any products which they which to remove. Cancelling a product this way may require users to upload required documentation for confirmation, such as a copy of their South African ID. If the cancellation is completed, customers will be issued with a reference number confirming their cancellation request and that this action should be processed within 30 days. Users should note that if they use a different ISP with a Telkom line, they will need to cancel their data service through their ISP before requesting the cancellation of their Telkom product. Additionally, cancelling long-term contracts may incur cancellation penalties as specified in the contract. Telkom adds that customers who seek credit refunds due to payments incurred after the cancellation notice period should contact the company’s billing department by calling 10210.  This process seems straightforward, but many customers have reported issues with Telkom’s online cancellation platform. Solving this issue is difficult, as most customers who have complained about this problem could not get it resolved by contacting the company’s call centre. Many customers waited longer than six months for their cancellation to be processed and continued to be charged for their products throughout this period. Not paying for the product after filing for cancellation can cause major problems, too. Telkom customers have complained about being blacklisted with credit bureaus after refusing to pay for Telkom products they have cancelled. This caused them to run into unexpected obstacles when conducting banking tasks such as consolidating home loans and applying for credit cards. When asked what customers should do when they continue to be billed despite cancelling their products, Telkom said they should contact its customer care centre via the following channels: Unfortunately, several customers who complained to MyBroadband about their cancellation problems were unable to resolve their issues through Telkom’s customer care centre – with their disputes only being resolved once MyBroadband contacted Telkom regarding their cases.