Cell C customers have once again contacted MyBroadband to report poor network performance and connectivity issues. The latest complaint was a Cell C user who stated that their fixed-LTE service in Kimberly has not been working since Saturday, while their mobile Cell C SIM does not even allow them to open websites when used in a device in the Randburg area today. Cell C customers have also sent multiple queries to Cell C Support on Twitter today, complaining of no data services. Cell C acknowledged the network problems on Twitter and asked users for details to look into the matter. Reports on Down Detector for Cell C downtime have also been above average for the past 24 hours. A tweet today from Cell C is shown below.  Cell C also replied to users on Twitter about network issues which were reported on Tuesday evening. The network stated that the availability of its services is “affected by factors such as faults in other electronic communication networks to which the Cell C network is connected to”. No explanation as to which networks Cell C was referencing was supplied.  MyBroadband asked Cell C about its latest network problems, and which electronic communication networks it was referring to in its tweet, but the company did not reply to questions. The problems with Cell C’s network follow similar reports from users last week, with customers stating they had problems with Internet connectivity, slow throughput, and dropped calls. Both sets of complaints follow a voice and data network outage on 1 December which left Cell C subscribers without mobile services. Cell C said the outage was caused by a power surge, due to load shedding, at the Neotel Data Centre where some of its network equipment is hosted. This tripped the air-conditioning and resulted in the Multi-Protocol Label Switching (MPLS) system, that enables the routing of traffic on the network, to overheat and power down. Since the network downtime at the start of the month, Cell C customers have continued to report problems on a consistent basis – particularly data connectivity and poor network performance issues. These have affected mobile services, MVNOs, and fixed-LTE packages.