Online shopping is showing rapid growth in South Africa, with sales estimated to have topped R10 billion in 2017. With online sales still only making up a very small percentage of the total retail market, this strong growth is set to continue for many years. There is, however, one big challenge which still hampers online shopping in South Africa – the SA Post Office’s slow and unreliable service. Most ecommerce players refuse to use the SA Post Office because of lost packages, the lack of accurate tracking, and website integration problems. Good news is that smart logistics company Pargo has filled this gap with its country-wide delivery network. Pargo has pickup points in almost every town in South Africa, which means clients can pick up their parcel at a location and time which suits them. For further convenience Pargo tracks deliveries from the warehouse to a customer’s pickup point and notifies them when they are ready for collection. Through its advanced real-time tracking system, Pargo makes sure there are no missed deliveries, confusions, delays, or disappointments. While many online shoppers use courier services for their parcel deliveries, they have drawbacks like high costs and slow delivery in rural areas. Pargo’s extensive network of pick-up points, especially in rural areas, provide an elegant solution where courier services struggle to serve. Pargo’s service is affordable, fast, and convenient, and there are no problems with deliveries in rural areas or restricted areas like gated communities or office parks. These benefits saw many ecommerce players partnering with Pargo for parcel deliveries, including TFG, OneDayOny, Cape Union Mart, Wellness Warehouse, Raru, HomeChoice, and FNB. What makes the service particularly suitable for ecommerce businesses is its ease-of-integration into existing online shops. Ecommerce businesses can simply add the Pargo option to their check-out page by installing the company’s free plug-in. The free plug-ins  are available for all popular online commerce platforms, including WooCommerce, Prestashop, Opencart, Shopify, Magento, and Bidorbuy. For more information about Pargo and its easy ecommerce integration, visit the Pargo website.