Honor recently launched its 8X smartphone in South Africa, which is aimed at giving users a flagship experience at a low price point. The device sells for R5,499 locally, but delivers a set of features which will make price-conscious consumers who want a top-end experience stop and take notice. The 8X features a 6.5-inch LCD display with a 2,340 x 1,080 resolution, Kirin 710 CPU, 4GB RAM, 64GB storage and microSD 400GB support, LTE support, dual rear cameras with AI features, and a 3,750mAh battery. One the software side, the phone runs EMUI 8.2 – a Huawei-skinned version of Android 8. The combination of this hardware and software means it will handle almost all tasks an average user throws at it, and its stylish chassis and very high screen-to-body ratio provide good looks too. While the Honor 8X is an attractive device, it is not a flagship phone, however. Sporting similar screen sizes, the Samsung Galaxy S9+ and Apple iPhone Xs Max provide a superior offering in terms of technology and performance – albeit at a much higher price point. The iPhone Xs with its 6.5-inch OLED display will set you back R23,999 for a 64GB model, while the Galaxy S9+ currently sells for R15,699. The two flagships offer better displays thanks to their OLED technology and other improved aspects like superior cameras. The argument for a cheaper phone over the flaships, though, is how much more are you willing to pay for incremental improvements or advantages? While the iPhone and Galaxy phones will take superior photos, for example, are they so far superior to the 8X that you will pay or three or four time more for them? The same can be said with LTE download speeds. A flagship may offer superior theoretical maximum download speeds, but will you ever take advantage of this in South Africa? The 8X is not a replacement for a flagship device, but it is an alternative users may consider if price is a strong factor when deciding on which smartphone they will buy next. The table below details the specifications of the devices.