As the festive season begins, you’ll have more time on your hands to catch up on the best series 2018 had to offer. Showmax has you covered with its vast catalogue of the most entertaining series of the year. It’s time to make some popcorn, grab a seat, and get ready to binge-watch these 12 fantastic new series on the streaming platform. There will be war. There will be death. And by viking god Odin’s beard, there will be blood! Stream the second half of Vikings S5, first and only on Showmax. Watch now»  The tables have turned. Porn is legal, and a new legit industry is growing alongside the mafia bankrollers. Big money brings its own kind of troubles, but everyone wants to keep the party going in this trailblazing new season. Watch now»  They are finally a team, but these young superheroes have caught Pride’s attention and now have to run from the law. Yet, a dark secret sparks rebellion among the villains, giving the Runaways a gap to fight back. Arrives on Saturday, 22 December.  Sam seems like a normal teenager, but his psychopathic tendencies begin to surface when a new girl, Chrissy, catches his attention in this thrilling four-episode mini-series. Watch now»  After a shocking event stuns the South Side community of Chicago, we follow the complex lives of four Chicago residents – Emmett, Brandon, Ronnie, and Kevin – as they try to navigate Chicago’s complexities. Watch now»  What happens when the cops are criminals? This series focuses on such a gang, which will stop at nothing to protect itself – even killing other officers. Don’t miss this first-rate thriller, produced by Curtis “50 Cent” Jackson. Watch now»  Many of their enemies are vanquished and with an even larger drug operation than ever before, Ghost and Egan seem set. But it’s not long before the FBI move in, convinced Ghost killed one of their own in this heart-stopping season. Watch now»  Last month Showmax launched the Adult Swim Collection, including shows like Robot Chicken, Black Jesus and Rick and Morty. The final season of Samurai Jack is brilliant. Watch it. After 50 long years of battling Aku, Samurai Jack has started to slip into madness and finds that his psyche has now become his own worst enemy. Watch now»  Detective Jake Peralta is a great cop, but also a total goofing slacker. Fortunately, he and his fellow oddball colleagues are also great at their jobs. Don’t miss the much-loved modern sitcom that is already a classic. Watch now»  Pushed out of the police force after defending her brother, Rebel is an outcast. She takes a job as a private investigator, but her enemies are still after her in this brilliant and tense drama, directed by John Singleton. Watch now» This adults-only drama series follows high-end escorts who know exactly how to package themselves to attract their wealthy clientele. Watch now»  In this tense thriller, CIA analyst Joe Turner (Max Irons) goes on the run after his entire team is assassinated. He soon learns that those he thought were his enemies might be his only allies. New episodes of this pulse-pounding thriller launch on Showmax weekly. Watch now»  One of the many great features offered by Showmax is the ability to download series for offline viewing on your mobile device! Whether you’re wanting to catch up on the latest episode of Brooklyn Nine-Nine, or just want to keep your children entertained during your travels – Showmax has you covered. Here’s how to download series on Showmax.  Downloads will stay on the device for up to 30 days, but once the kids have started watching an episode or movie, they’ll have to finish it in 48 hours. You need to be signed into the app to see your downloads. Get a free 14-day trial if you are a first-time user when you sign up for Showmax, and if you’re a DStv Premium subscriber, get Showmax at no extra cost. DStv Compact and Compact Plus subscribers get Showmax for R49. Sign up now. Vodacom customers can get three months access and 15GB Showmax data for free. Visit this website for more information. This article was published in partnership with Showmax.