Cell C announced it has enhanced its data bundle roll-over and transfer features to be fully compliant with ICASA’s End-User and Subscriber Service Charter regulations. The End-User and Subscriber Service Charter Regulations require South African mobile networks to implement rules which allow for extended data roll-over, data transfer, improved data depletion notifications, and out-of-bundle usage control. All mobile operators must comply with the End-User and Subscriber Service Charter Regulations by 28 February 2019. The company previously launched its Spend Control service, which allows customers to prevent out-of-bundle spend through USSD menus, the Cell C app, or the operator’s online portal. Cell C also introduced improved data depletion notifications services, with customers now receiving depletion notifications at 20%, 50%, 80% and 100% intervals. The mobile operator said it will implement its new data roll-over and transfer mechanisms from the weekend of 22 December 2018. Data transfer allows customers to send data to other Cell C users. The network has always had the option of transferring data to others if customers had purchased a data bundle, but it has now enhanced and extended this service to allow for the transfer of additional types of data bundles that customers may have bought. The service applies to inclusive data bundlea and inclusive data on contracts. Promotional or free data, Black data, and bundles dedicated to social services are excluded. Cell C customers will be able to transfer data bundles three times per day and up to 1GB per month for free. Cell C added that its improved version of data roll-over will be made available this weekend. Previously, customers have been able to extend their remaining data bundle balance by simply purchasing another data bundle before their current bundle expired, with unused data on recurring bundles automatically rolling over while the bundle was active. The improved service will now allow customers to extend the validity date of their data by 1, 7, or 30 days at a time. Customers with 100MB or less remaining will be able to roll over their data free for an additional seven days, while customers that rollover between 101MB and 500MB of data can roll over free for an additional day. Cell C added that customers will pay a nominal fee to roll over larger data balances and extensions. “Cell C has pulled out all the stops to ensure that we are not only compliant with the regulations, but that customers will benefit from these changes,” said Cell C CEO Jose Dos Santos. “We are proud to be able to have done it all well before the deadline,” he said.