GConnect recently announced it was acquired by Exmile Technologies. The company, which offers Wi-Fi hotspot services to businesses and wholesale Wi-Fi services to ISPs, currently has a network footprint of over 600 Wi-Fi hotspots across South Africa. It also recently completed the development of its Social Wi-Fi and Analytics software. MyBroadband spoke to GConnect about its plans for development in South Africa following their acquisition. The company told MyBroadband it plans to continue with the expansion of its footprint in South Africa and will increase its Wi-Fi coverage by a factor of two. “While focusing on main centres such as Gauteng, the Western Cape, and KZN, we plan to double our Wi-Fi hotspot footprint by this time next year,” said GConnect. GConnect said the Exmile Technologies acquisition will allow it to exercise its Wi-Fi strategy and grow the company. “Exmile will not only focus on chasing new business, but also the retaining and improving of existing client relationships – which will assist in strengthening client value chains, product quality, and brand reliability.” “Exmile will also in future establish and venture into various industry markets,” said the company. “These will be beneficial in terms of cross business-pollination and brand involvement.” GConnect believes that Wi-Fi should no longer be seen as an expense by a business, but as a new customer engagement strategy through analytics. To help achieve this, the company offers a Social Wi-Fi and Analytics software suite, which it said can help businesses understand their customers. “We’ve developed software for clients where you can build your own audience from collected social Wi-Fi logins and analytics, communicate to them directly via email and SMS from within an online portal, and view customer engagement for each campaign.” “The software will allow for venues to understand who their customers are, how to directly communicate to them, build lasting relationships with customers, and ultimately increase customer loyalty and revenue.” The features of the software include customer profiling, usage tracking, and identification. The data usage, number of customers, and other reporting information can also be compiled and delivered to the business owner. This offering is aimed at making the installation of Wi-Fi an advantage for businesses, as opposed to an expense, said GConnect.