Barely a week seems to go by without news of a new data breach exposing customer or commercial data. Data breach activity was high in 2017, with 1,202 breaches in the 11 months to November, according to a report from the Identity Theft Resource Centre. This was an increase of 10% over the 1,093 breaches during the whole of 2016. In fact, according to the Breach Level Index, nearly 5 million data records are lost or stolen worldwide every single day – a staggering 58 records every second. And according to the Ponemon Institute, South African organisations are at a higher risk for data breaches than their counterparts across the globe, with the cost of data breaches to South African companies estimated at $2.53 million. Despite their investments in security technology, 9 out of 10 South African IT security professionals surveyed have experienced a phishing-related incident and almost all still worry about email-related threats, according to a phishing response trends report by PhishMe. The report is based on surveys of 100 South Africa IT security professionals, offering insights into their phishing and incident-response processes. The survey revealed that over 60% of respondents felt unprepared to deal with a phishing attack, even though phishing is their primary concern. 56% went so far as to say that their response to phishing attacks ranges from mediocre to “totally ineffective”, despite having a tech team. When it comes to improving phishing defences, over half (52%) of the respondents said automated analysis was the way forward, as manually analysing phishing emails and possible malware is difficult and time-intensive. Automation, however, allows for the analysis of phishing emails and helps incident responders distinguish noise from real threats. To assist with this, PhishMe offers various solutions, including PhishMe Triage and PhishMe Intelligence, which strengthen your organisation’s ability to quickly identify and respond to phishing attacks in progress. Furthermore, the powerful combination of PhishMe Simulator and PhishMe Reporter helps turn all employees into your own human phishing defence. With PhishMe’s solutions, you can condition employees to resist phishing attempts and empower them to become part of the solution by identifying and reporting real attacks in real-time. For more information, visit http://www.nu.co.za/phishing-response-trends-south-africa-welcome-to-the-jumble/. To download the trends report, visit https://phishme.com/phishing-response-trends-south-africa/. This article was published in partnership with PhishMe.