Dealing with disruptive change is the great challenge of our age. While disruptive innovation is nothing new – the invention of the wheel being an early example – the speed at which it takes place now is unprecedented. Today, new technologies are continuously giving rise to new markets and new players, while displacing established commercial leaders. “Managing digital transformation is now the number one challenge for organisations on how they will survive and stay relevant in the new digital age,” said Michael Reh, Tymlez CEO, speaking at SUSE Blockchain Introduction event at the start of February. “Blockchain technology is a key enabler for enterprises to be disruptive, rather than having themselves be disrupted by new players,” said Reh. “Blockchain technology also provides capabilities that enable enterprises to create new business models and constantly amend them to meet the needs of the fast-changing digital economy.” Based on this technology, Tymlez has developed a highly-scalable and secure blockchain platform for enterprises. This enables enterprises to develop, deploy, and scale up distributed blockchain applications that can be integrated into legacy systems and data. “Companies are facing the challenge that their existing system landscapes have not been built to leverage the blockchain, so we have developed this platform to help our clients address this,” said Reh. Tymlez architecture provides a complete secure environment that enables: The Tymlez solution is “container-wise”, said Reh, and integrates with the SUSE CaaS Platform – a software-defined infrastructure solution that includes Kubernetes orchestration technology. The container-as-a-service (CaaS) platform supports organisations either containerising existing applications directly or those using a microservices architecture. The all-in-one product can reduce time to market for companies starting to look at the container space in support of microservices. “Building on advanced Kubernetes features, the SUSE CaaS Platform enables Tymlez to ensure that all components are available at all times and rapidly provision the resources needed to keep business processes running uninterrupted,” said Reh. For companies facing ‘the innovator’s dilemma’ – where they cannot invent or create a new business model inside of their existing business model –Tymlez can enable organisations to be more agile and to efficiently apply rapid changes to working processes. “More importantly, you need to scale, and the integration of the SUSE CaaS and Tymlez platforms means that you can scale to a very high level of transaction quickly and securely,” said Adrian Woodstock, Tymlez Business Development Manager EMEA. Axiz is a local distributor for SUSE and boasts a portfolio of over 50 leading brands that combine to deliver holistic solutions tailored to client’s needs. For more information about SUSE, please visit the Axiz website.  This article was published in partnership with Axiz.