Plantronics (NYSE: PLT), an audio pioneer and communications technology leader, introduced today the Voyager 6200 UC, the company’s latest addition to its flagship Voyager family of enterprise headsets. The new neckband wearing style features Bluetooth wireless connectivity, a boomless design with comfort-fit earbuds, active noise cancellation (ANC), and integration with major UC applications.  With the addition of Voyager 6200 UC to its line-up, Plantronics is now offering professionals the widest range of stereo Bluetooth devices with ANC of any vendor in market. “Accommodating individual employee workstyles is becoming increasingly important, especially when it comes to retaining millennial and Gen Y talent,” said Alaa Saayed, ICT Principal Analyst, Frost & Sullivan. “By offering a wide choice of headsets and letting people choose their preference, IT and line of business managers can create a solid win-win scenario; optimising the UC and collaboration experience overall for the company, and engendering goodwill with highly valuable personnel.” “We continue to hear that noise and distraction are the number one pain-points for office professionals,” said Gavin Sear, Global Product Marketing at Plantronics. “The best way to get people to embrace technology that can help them communicate and collaborate better is by offering choices that speak to their individual workstyle as well as their lifestyle, whether they’re in or out of the office. The Voyager 6200 UC delivers this versatility with business-grade audio to a new group of users that find existing headset and headphone offerings too limiting.” The Voyager 6200 UC offers a unique combination of features and benefits unlike any other neckband headset with earbuds in market, including: Voyager 6200 UC is fully supported by Plantronics Manager Pro, which allows IT managers to monitor, manage and maintain devices company-wide, including usage and acoustic analysis. This includes the ability to configure the user experience, manage firmware deployments, and harvest predictive analytics to detect compatibility issues before they become critical. Plantronics Manager Pro is available as a subscription service, sold separately from the Voyager family. More information about features offered within Voyager 6200 UC, the Voyager Family, and Plantronics Manager Pro are available at www.plantronics.com. Voyager 6200 UC will be coming to South Africa soon and will be available in black and sand colours through Plantronics authorized partners.  