Brother International, a leader in home and business IT peripherals that focuses on the ‘Customer-First’ approach, has released a new series of colour laser printers and Multi-Function Centres that are tailor-made for high volume workgroups and growing businesses. There is one single-function printer in the new Business Colour Laser Series, the HL-L8360CDW, as well as two Multi-Function Centres, the MFC-L8690CDW and the MFC-L9570CDW. The new series provides exceptional performance at a very competitive cost-per-page. The models feature efficient 2-sided colour and mono printing of up to 31 pages per minute (ppm) as well as automatic 2-sided scanning, copying and fax capabilities*. In addition, Brother products can be modified to suit unique customer needs through Brother Special Solutions Customisation (SSC). Brother Solutions Interface (BSI), a web-based service platform, also enables software developers to create custom solutions easily. “Brother is committed to be ‘At Your Side’ today, tomorrow, and for many more years to come. Brother’s Business Colour Laser Series is engineered to be reliable and affordable while enhancing business productivity and efficiency over the long term,” says Dale de Villiers, marketing manager at Brother South Africa. “These printers will exceed the expectations of businesses looking for secure, low-cost, high-volume colour printing solutions.” Performance enhancements for the new Business Colour Laser Series over its predecessor include: * The automatic 2-sided and fax capabilities are supported by the MFC-L8690CDW and the MFC-L9570CDW. ** Expand paper input with an optional tower tray that holds up to 2,080 sheets, in comparison with previous series The HL-L8360CDW printer and MFC-L9570CDW multi-function centre have been recognised for their high-quality product design after winning a Good Design Award 2017 in the Colour Multi-Function Laser Series category. In addition, the MFC-L9570CDW has been awarded the 2018 BLI Winter Pick Award for Outstanding Colour Multi-function Printer for SMBs. TCO is reduced from the date of purchase as all three models ship with inbox toners of 6000 pages per colour. The ultra high-yield replacement toners provide superb value with up to 9,000 pages of printing and cuts down on time spent ordering and replacing cartridges. Paper handling is extremely versatile with the new Business Colour Laser Series. Thicker or odd-sized paper can be accommodated in the multi-purpose tray. As printing requirements grow, these colour laser printers can grow in unison with expandable paper handling options. An optional tower tray, compatible with the HL-L8360CDW and MFC-L9570CDW, gives up to 2,080 sheets for high volume print jobs, while optional paper trays can hold a maximum of either 250 or 500 sheets each. The series features advanced security capabilities that give businesses full control and protection of print infrastructure. With Active Directory, login credentials are required for user access authentication. Secure Function Lock 3.0 also empowers businesses to make sure only authorised users may use the printers, and can restrict the functionality available on each device. The HL-L8360CDW and MFC-L9570CDW feature an integrated Near Field Communication (NFC) reader further allowing secure access to the printer as an ID card must be physically swiped at the device before a job can be released. In addition, Brother’s BRAdmin Professional Software helps businesses control their print infrastructure remotely, from managing printing costs with print quotas for each user, to instant alerts of any printer downtime for quick attendance. Brother’s new Business Colour Laser range is designed to be robust, delivering even within very challenging office environments. The devices are built with materials that withstand constant wear and tear. Enhance document scanning with a Dual CIS Automatic Document Feeder holding up to 80 sheets^, offering you an easy way to scan multiple-page documents directly to your preferred medium. Time-saving shortcuts can even be customised at the touch of a button†. Print wirelessly from any connected smart mobile device with Brother iPrint&Scan, Apple’s AirPrint™, Mopria™ and Google Cloud Print™. Users could also do more by previewing copies and faxes, and saving files to Cloud†. Print or scan directly from selected Brother machines with the free Brother Cloud Apps and an Internet connection. This free suite of innovative applications empowers users to create, edit and convert documents. Expect more capabilities as Brother develops new apps that will be made available for download over time. Brother’s new Business Colour Laser Series is available from an authorized reseller near you. For more information about Brother, visit www.brother.co.za Introducing the models in Brother’s latest Business Colour Laser Printer Series: † Applicable to selected models.^ The MFC-L8690CDW ADF capacity is up to 50 sheets and the MFC-L9570CDW ADF capacity up to 80 sheets. All prices are inclusive of the prevailing taxes and include a 3-year on-site warranty. These machines can be purchased through Brother International South Africa’s authorised resellers.       Brother is a leader in the development and manufacturing of technologies in the printing, communication and digital imaging industries for homes, SOHOs and corporates who demand solutions that empower businesses and individuals to communicate ideas in every possible way. A trusted brand worldwide that believes in the “Customer First” approach in all aspect of their business, Brother has continuously met the varied needs of their customers through their comprehensive range of quality printing solutions. Brother International South Africa (Pty) Ltd is the regional sales office for South Africa and markets a range of products manufactured by its parent company, Brother Industries, Ltd. of Nagoya, Japan.  Established in 1970, Brother International South Africa (Pty) Ltd manages an extensive network of distributors in both domestic and Sub Saharan markets. Brother’s printing business is committed to the advancement of technologies and “work style innovation” and constantly strives to pioneer new technologies and improve product quality. The different types of technology Brother offers are convenient to use and helps streamline workflow and efficiency in corporate, SME and home environments. For more information about Brother, visit http://www.brother.co.za. This article was published in partnership with Brother.