As email-borne threats become more prevalent and sophisticated, many organisations are shifting to a cyber resilience strategy to better protect their business, data, and employees. In 2017, two massive malware attacks occurred within a month of each other – Petya and WannaCry – and both targeted vulnerable Microsoft computers. Each of these global ransomware outbreaks seized hundreds of thousands of systems – from healthcare, to government, to transportation – across 150 countries. “Whether they say it or not, on some level, people believe cybercrime won’t affect them – especially C-level execs who genuinely believe that they are cyber resilient and should rather focus on business growth,” said Francis Cronje, data protection and information governance specialist. Cronje was speaking at Mimecast’s POPIA and cyber resilience update, where he shared stats from the Ponemon Institute’s study: 2017 Cost of Data Breach Study. According to the stats, of the 11 countries considered, South Africa has the highest probability of experiencing a data breach in the next 24 months – at 41%. “Malicious outsiders are the biggest threat to organisations, with data breaches costing organisations an average of $3.6 million in disaster management, forensic investigations, and business continuity,” said Cronje. “Over and above the costs and loss in share price, which drops 5% on average immediately after a breach is announced, the damage to your brand and reputation can be irreversible.” “Cyber resilience is an acknowledgement that attacks on email systems are likely to continue, and despite best efforts, they will sometimes be successful,” said Cobus Benade, cyber resilience expert at Mimecast. He said that a cyber resilience strategy should focus not just on combating attacks, but on ensuring continuity during an attack and fast recovery after a threat is neutralised. “We need to look at what happens before, during, and after attacks occur, because the quicker you are able to respond to a breach, the better you are able to recover your share value, customer loyalty, and brand reputation,” he said. For organisations implementing a cyber resilience strategy for email, Mimecast offers an all-in-one suite of solutions to address risks associated with email security, enterprise archiving, and email availability. Mimecast offers four pillars on which to build a cyber resilience plan for email: “At Mimecast, we can help you to think holistically about safeguarding against email-borne threats, mitigate risk, and implement a cyber resilience strategy,” Benade concluded. For more information, visit the Mimecast website. This article was published in partnership with Mimecast.