WIRUlink recently announced it was expanding its wireless Internet coverage to outlying regions across South Africa. The latest areas to benefit are Heidelberg and Nigel, with more regions set to be covered, the company told MyBroadband. WIRUlink cofounder Riaan Maree said there are a number of new developments happening at WIRUlink during 2018, of which its expansion strategy is a focus. “The new areas that are being deployed with wireless infrastructure include Heidelberg and Nigel, where all infrastructure has been deployed and tested, officially launching on 1 February,” said Maree. “We have earmarked expansion into the following provinces during 2018: Mpumalanga, Western Cape, KwaZulu-Natal, and the North West.” The company’s wireless tower density is also being increased in areas in and around Gauteng, which will provide better coverage for more users, and allow for faster speeds to homes and businesses. Fibre is another focus area for WIRUlink, with more infrastructure provider networks being added during the next three months, said Maree. The Western Cape and KwaZulu-Natal are targets for business fibre and FTTH in March, while all major and smaller metros in South Africa have been targeted for business fibre in April. A potential concern for users in “outlying areas” is the quality of service they will receive, particularly when it comes to wireless connectivity, and WIRUlink is well aware of this. “We strongly believe in product and service simplicity. Further to this, we believe that given the Internet is a tool that’s used to access services, it should be able to just work in the background without a fuss,” said Maree. “The Internet and good connectivity should be an enabler and as such, users in the outlying areas can expect the same unmatched Internet speeds, pricing, and service offered in the main regions.” These services include: “Consumers and businesses have a lot to look forward to, getting connected by WIRUlink, using the latest technologies during 2018,” said Maree. “We have been working hard in keeping abreast with international trends, with affordability and simplicity at the heart of it.” Maree added that users can also expect a “new technology that, to our knowledge, is not yet being used in South Africa”. It will change the status quo in terms of speed, reliability, and price, he said.