Cloud migration is showing significant growth in South Africa, with a study from the International Data Corporation revealing that 93% of South African companies are developing a cloud strategy. Yet, many businesses interested in moving to the cloud are unsure of how to do so compliantly and cost effectively. For this reason, Axiz has added Azure skills to its business in the form of front line technical expertise – supported by Microsoft Solutions Architects, Solutions Experts, and Solutions Developers – to better guide its partner channel and to support end-users in their cloud journey. These skills are critical in helping to drive a cloud strategy in any IT environment – particularly because Azure has wide market place offerings with global Independent Software Vendors (ISVs), including Citrix, Veeam, Veritas, IBM, and Red Hat. The experts that form part of Axiz’s Microsoft CSP team have enabled Axiz to grow over 2,000% with Azure year-on-year, which has seen many South African businesses move to a modern data environment. Microsoft is further supporting South African businesses by establishing an Azure cloud region in South Africa, deploying infrastructure in co-located data centres in Johannesburg and Cape Town to offer locally-hosted cloud services. As a result, customers will enjoy more reliability, faster speeds, and lower latencies than they can get when accessing cloud services from data centres in Europe or the US. Azure also offers a comprehensive set of flexible AI services for any scenario and enterprise-grade AI infrastructure that runs AI workloads anywhere at scale, as AI becomes more relevant in businesses today. Azure offers modern AI tools that have been designed for developers and data scientists to help solutions partners create AI solutions easily and with maximum productivity, which Axiz’s expert team can assist with. To better help customers and partners experience Azure first hand, Axiz offered a $200 Azure experience at the Microsoft Tech Summit in February in Cape Town. At the event, a keynote presentation was also delivered on Azure, Cloud for All to showcase the value of Azure to enterprise customers as well as SMBs. Axiz has removed the complexity from the cloud by collaborating with Microsoft Azure, making high-end services and brands available to channel partners and their customers – enabling them to remain relevant in an industry that is at the leading edge of digital transformation. For all Azure queries, contact MicrosoftCSP@axiz.com or Traci.Maynard@axiz.com or call 011 237 7128. This article was published in partnership with Axiz.