Ingram Micro, the world’s largest wholesale technology distributor, has introduced top Linksys products to the South African market. Ingram Micro, which has operated in South Africa since 2007, is the world’s largest wholesale technology distributor – with Linksys forming part of its extensive portfolio. Linksys offers award-winning products that simplify home control, entertainment, security, and Internet access for multi-device households – ensuring that “Everybody’s online. Nobody’s waiting.” These include the Linksys WRT32X gaming router and the Velop Tri-Band modular Wi-Fi system. The Linksys brand has pioneered wireless connectivity since 1988 with its leading innovation and engineering strategies, and its best-in-class technology, design, and customer service.  Engineered purely for gaming, the Linksys WRT32X gaming router with its Killer Prioritisation Engine provides a smooth and fast home network. This high-performance gaming router synchronises with Killer-enabled PCs – from brands like Alienware, Gigabyte, MSI, and Razer – to reduce peak ping times by up to 77%, with speeds of up to 3.2Gbps that deliver smooth, lag-free gaming. The router has four high-performance antennas, which ensure optimal coverage and maximum signal strength – even in large, multi-story buildings. The dual-band router supports the 2.4GHz and 5GHz frequencies simultaneously, allowing multiple devices connected to each of its bands without adversely affecting performance. It also features a WAN and four LAN ports, supporting both ADSL and fibre connections. The specifications of the WRT32X router are detailed below.  For users looking for a high-performing modular Wi‑Fi mesh system for the entire home, Ingram Micro has introduced Velop by Linksys. Velop is the first Tri-Band modular Wi-Fi system that can be installed in various mesh configurations, providing fast and reliable, full-strength Wi-Fi signals to the very edge of a home – covering over 500 square metres. The system makes use of a dedicated connection between devices, broadcasting a single SSID, rather than the separate 5GHz and 2.4GHz SSIDs typically used by other routers. The Velop also automatically shifts devices between the 2.4GHz and 5GHz bands to offer the best performance – depending on the available signal strength. Each Velop node can handle up to a maximum of 32 clients, with the maximum number of nodes that can be added still being tested by the Linksys Engineering team.  Currently, they have tested up to six nodes. The specifications of the Velop system are detailed below. To join Ingram Micro’s partner system, or to find out more about Linksys routers, visit the Ingram Micro website. This article was published in partnership with Ingram Micro.