Microsoft 365 is a combination of three products which aims to help businesses evolve their workplace into a more productive environment. This is according to Microsoft, which outlined its vision for 365 at the Microsoft Tech Summit in Cape Town. The package includes Office 365, Windows 10, and Enterprise Mobility and Security, and is aimed at businesses, enterprise customers, and the education sector. By combining these products, Microsoft offers a complete toolset for migrating to a digital workplace – while enhancing productivity and improving collaboration. Microsoft said common trends in the workplace include an increased need for employee engagement, along with a move towards a less hierarchical structure. The company said millennials will make up 50% of the workforce by 2020, and that 42% of the global workforce will be mobile. Cyberthreats are a major threat to evolving modern workplaces, added Microsoft, stating that 74% of companies believe they will be hacked within the next year. “The reality is that times have changed and it’s not just about using technologies and features, it’s about a new way of working,” said Microsoft. The company said the effort to enable digital migration in the workplace is a complex problem, which is made easier through the use of a toolset which can deliver improved productivity while enhancing employee engagement. Through tools like Office 365’s cloud-based OneNote service, employees can collate notes on meetings and offer realistic solutions without the need to manually share files. Additionally, services such as OneDrive allow employees to share files, migrate to new hardware, and secure data against accidental loss. The simplified IT management offered by the Microsoft 365 platform also allows IT departments to maintain and curate employee credentials, without sacrificing their ability to perform other tasks. Microsoft said it also focuses on engaging with business partners to help them migrate into the digital world by training them to use the 365 platform. Microsoft 365 comes in three variations: Enterprise, Business, and Education, all of which offer different services. Microsoft 365 Business offers a single, accessible package with the best features of all three products, while 365 Enterprise offers a more expansive feature set with a higher degree of control. The Education package provides a simpler package which is easy to use and includes student licences at no extra cost. Microsoft said these services are built around a number of core principles, including collaborative efficiency, enabling creativity, simplifying user experiences, and delivering built-in security.