Cell C’s Black entertainment platform offers everything from video and music streaming to concert tickets and sports betting. The service has seen impressive mobile growth since its launch in November 2017, gaining over 100,000 mobile app downloads on Android and 9,000 on iOS. Black has also grown popular across other devices, including laptops and the service’s dedicated BlackBOX set-top box. In an interview with MyBroadband, Black chief executive Surie Ramasary said there is more to come in 2018. The platform aims to be more than just a streaming service and will offer a connected and social experience with access to multiple services, said Ramasary. Ramasary said Black is expanding its BlackBOX distribution following the launch of the device and is working on adding new features and content. “We are looking at branching out through distribution and partnering with partners who will enhance the experience for consumers,” said Ramasary. Ramasary added that the platform’s content and subscription packages are revised constantly to meet the demands of subscribers. “We review and refine our subscription and rental packages on a monthly basis, in addition to reviewing content.” Black wants to become a one-stop-shop for entertainment, online shopping, social interactions, and more, said Ramasary. The BlackBOX and Black smart TV app are key components of this evolution, as the service aims to improve customer experience by offering these features through a television interface. “The user experience on the BlackBOX is a central feature of the device. Every month we are adding new features and improving the experience on the box.” “Our next level we are focussing on is bringing services to the platform, ranging from food delivery to online shopping,” she said. With linked services like food delivery on the service, customers will be able to order food to their door without leaving the Black app. The platform will also add interactive social features, such as inviting friends to watch content you think they will enjoy and sending them unique reactions to events which they will receive in the app. Ramasary said a core focus of Black is to also keep customers happy and interested in the content, and the service would constantly adapt to consumer interest. “We will bring new content and channels based on what our customers want, and we will constantly evolve to keep our customers engaged,” said Ramasary.