I was going to pay my TV licence this year. Honestly, I was. Things are looking up in South Africa and I felt it was time to show my support with this gesture. Financially, it is a drop in the ocean compared to the taxes, levies, and rates I pay every month, but paying it would be symbolic of my new-found hope in President Cyril Ramaphosa, new SABC COO Chris Maroleng, and the country in general, I told myself. I have received a plethora of SMSs in the past two weeks telling me to pay my TV licence and that penalties were coming. The licence fee is R265, but the most recent SMS I received stated I owed R344.50. Still, this was fine with me – I had not paid on time and I could stomach the penalty. Then, the attorneys called. My phone rang with an “Unknown Number”, which turned out to be a call centre agent who claimed to be from a firm of attorneys. The reason for the call: I had not paid my TV licence. A summary of the call is below: The call centre agent then hung up, and my desire to pay my TV licence disappeared with the engaged tone playing. If you are in a similar situation, the question now is: What happens if I do not pay? OUTA CEO Wayne Duvenage told MyBroadband that the SABC cannot blacklist anyone for outstanding TV licences, as the SABC is not a credit provider and TV licences are not part of a credit agreement. “If someone is blacklisted, they should complain to the National Credit Regulator as soon as possible. An adverse listing should be preceded by a notice setting out the intention,” said Duvenage. He said that any letters of demand or SMSs are not hollow threats per se, however. “Generally speaking, it is an indication or precursor to litigation, and a person should seriously consider whether they want to defend the claim.” “If not, then the person should consider settling the debt. However, what people should be aware of is that a debt collector must be registered.” “In the event that a person is phoned, they are well within their rights to get the person’s name and to find out from the Counsel for Debt Collector’s whether the person or company is registered.” Duvenage said they do not know of anyone being summonsed for non-payment of their TV licence.