Fujikura, a Japanese company, offers two core alignment fusion splicer models – the famous Fujikura-70S+ and the newly-launched Fujikura 62S. Both the 70S+ and 62S are top-of-the-range arc fusion splicers and genuine core-to-core alignment machines. Both continuously produce above-average quality splices in a range of environmental conditions, and both models splice any fibre type and mismatched fibre types, e.g. G652 to G657, etc. seamlessly in auto mode. Splicing time is from 6 seconds and heating time as little as 9 seconds on the Fujikura-70S+. The 70S+ presents automated features, including a dual heater-element auto oven unique to the Fujikura brand. Other features include automated wind protector cover operation, auto clamping and releasing mechanisms, and auto splicing, all unique to the amazing Fujikura-70S+. To explain the differences between the Fujikura-70S+ and Fujikura 62S, see the images below.  Both these vehicles are the same brand, engine, and performance specification. The one is blue and the other one is black, but apart from that there is one major difference.  The blue car has an automated gearbox and changes gears automatically, while the black car has a manual gearbox and gears are changed via the clutch and stick. This is the same for these two splicers. The 70S+ has fully automated features, whereas the 62S is manual and splice operation is similar to historical Fujikura models, e.g. the 60S, 50S, 40S, etc. It operates by manually lifting the wind protector cover, clamps, etc. The 70S+ is a machine built for speed, and it splices in just four steps as some of the actions are automatically performed by the unit. The 62S splices in 9 steps, and all steps are performed by the operator. (Alignment and splicing is automatic). Most people love the unique and faster automated features of the 70S+, but some prefer the manual way of doing things. Fujikura caters for both. Splice quality is exactly similar, and so is the result – a perfect and durable splice. See it like this: most assume that the manual car is more fun to drive, but it’s terrible to drive in traffic and the flappy panel feature on the automated car gives the driver full manual control, should it be required. Fujikura and IC LOGISTIX recommend the 70S+ as the most prevalent choice. The Fujikura-70S+ and Fujikura-62S are sold in two configurations, either KIT A or KIT B. Both kits include: The 70S+ and 62S KIT A includes the FUJIKURA CT-30A type cleaver. The CT-30A has, once again, automated features e.g. the fibre collector is automated, and it dumps the offcut fibre in the bin automatically. The 70S+ and 62S KIT B includes the new FUJIKURA CT-08 type cleaver. The operator deals with the offcut fibre. The cleaver model is the only difference between the KIT A and KIT B. KIT A comes with the top-of-the-range Fujikura cleaver, and KIT B includes a somewhat more modest cleaver unit. Thus, KIT B is slightly cheaper than KIT A. What is in the PLUS+? Fujikura’s newly updated splicer models, featuring the + next to the model number, refer to the new Bluetooth feature that allows connectivity between splice machine and your smart device via the Fujikura app. All Fujikura splicers kits include a 2-year warranty and a 1-year Platinum Service Plan, which can be extended for up to five years. IC LOGISTIX has a fully-accredited and equipped service laboratory, and its technicians are factory-trained in Japan. The company carries most spares, and its service turn-around time is usually not more than three days. These splice kits do not include fibre preparation tools. Please check the IC LOGISTIX website for options. The most popular toolkit is the Yellow Fibre Kit (FOT-B). Fujikura Ltd was founded in February 1885 by Zenpachi Fujikura. The company started by manufacturing silk and cotton insulated winding wires. After experiencing electricity for the first time in 1883, Zenpachi decided to use his knowledge of the hair braiding industry (his first business) to start Fujikura Electrical Company. Fujikura remain the world leader in splice equipment and the top-of-the-range brand for fusion splice machines. They developed the first fusion splicer in 1975 and have been at the forefront of the optic fibre industry since then, including splice machines. The company offers many products, specialising in optic fibre cable and electronic components. Fujikura is a world leader in medical equipment component development, and the company is also famous for their exclusive development of the flexible PC-board (FPC), the type used in all cellphones, laptops, digital screens, iDevices, automotive wiring and sensors, electronics, and more. For more information, visit the IC LOGISTIX website or phone +27 (0)11 521 2370. This article was published in partnership with IC Logistix.