Liquid Telecom plans to upgrade its data centre facilities and expand its physical fibre footprint in South Africa and other markets where it operates, chief business development officer Willem Marais told MyBroadband. “We have over 16,000 kilometres of linear network route in South Africa and a total of over 50,000km across all 15 markets we serve,” said Marais. While Liquid Telecom will expand its fibre network in the country, it does not plan on making a fibre-to-the-home push this year. “Our focus in South Africa has been national and metro fibre, and fibre to the business,” said Marais. Marais said Liquid Telecom has strong FTTH deployments in many markets, and the reason they haven’t invested in FTTH in South Africa is due to the challenge of rolling out national and metro networks. He said this also ensures they do not duplicate the effort of other organisations, as this allows Liquid Telecom to play to its strengths. “We partner with FTTH providers to connect our clients,” said Marais. Liquid Telecom is involved in the retail arena in South Africa, however, after acquiring Neotel. This includes over 120,000 retail subscribers on its old CDMA network. “We are considering other media to connect those customers,” said Marais. Liquid Telecom, under its subsidiary Africa Data Centres, recently launched its newly-expanded data centres in Johannesburg and Cape Town. It upgraded the total floor space of its Johannesburg data centre from 1,800 to 3,000 square metres, and its Cape Town data centre from 500 to 1,800 square metres. The Johannesburg data centre has a total power capacity of 7MW, while the Cape Town facility offers 5.5MW of power. Liquid Telecom will continue to upgrade these facilities in terms of floorspace and power over the course of 2018, with the aim of increasing the capacity of the data centres five-fold over the next five years. Liquid Telecom will take on its local mission for 2018 without its current South Africa CEO Kyle Whitehill, who is leaving the company to return to the UK in March.