Digicape has revealed that its strongest growth in 2017 came from iPhones (153.2%) and iPads (54.5%). As a premium independent reseller of Apple products in South Africa, the performance of Apple devices helped Digicape perform well last year – despite the tough economic conditions. The company’s revenue grew by 9.7% year-on-year, thanks to strong iPhone and iPad sales, and a good Black Friday performance. The biggest surprise was that iMac sales grew by 14.6% last year, in a desktop market which is struggling. Digicape managing director Robin Olivier told MyBroadband they are bullish about the South African market in 2018. “Developments in the political landscape are attracting attention from international investors and coupled with the volatility of the US dollar, we expect the rand will continue to strengthen,” said Olivier. He said a stronger rand will help them offer more attractive pricing on Apple products. “We are not expecting fireworks in the first half of 2018, but we anticipate a steep growth curve in the second half, especially as economic sentiment improves.” Olivier said Digicape will continue to focus on three areas this year – retail, education, and business solutions. “Retail is always the slightly more challenging arena, as it is reliant on consumers having the confidence to spend,” said Olivier. “Because of an increasingly positive sentiment for the year ahead, we feel that the time is right to expand our retail footprint by opening more stores.” Education remains an exciting space for the company, and it has worked with many schools to help them embrace the education solutions it offers. Within Apple, there is a drive to provide great products and solutions for businesses and Digicape is a premium provider of these solutions in South Africa. “Areas of concern for businesses, such as security, device management, and productivity are where Apple excels – and where we have focused our skills and knowledge development,” said Olivier. In 2017, Digicape also partnered with a number of corporate clients, tailoring solutions to their needs. “We anticipate huge growth in this arena in 2018, as more businesses realise the benefits, especially from a cost, resourcing, and productivity perspective.”