HMD Global recently announced it was bringing back the Nokia 8110. The device sports the same iconic “banana phone” design of the original, but its features and components have been completely overhauled. The new Nokia 8110 supports 4G connectivity and runs Nokia’s Smart Feature Operating System – which is built on KaiOS. We’ve outlined all the details you need to know about the Nokia 8110 4G feature phone, below. The device’s curved chassis is made of a polycarbonate material and a manual “smooth slide” mechanism allows you to slide the bottom plate to access the soft keypad. Opening and closing the slider answers and hangs up calls respectively, while the device’s keypad is backlit for low-light use. Like its predecessor, the device’s 2.4-inch 240 x 320 colour TFT display is not a touchscreen, and users will have to rely on the directional buttons for navigation. Battery technology has improved significantly since the original Nokia 8110 was launched, and the new device boasts an impressive 25-day battery life. The Nokia 8110 4G is more of a feature phone than a smartphone, but does include useful modern features – such as connected applications and Internet browsing. KaiOS – on which Smart Feature is based – is a fork of the Mozilla Firefox OS project, but Nokia has emphasised that KaiOS is not Firefox OS. The platform features an app store where third-party developers can publish software, which already runs on 30 million devices in India and North America. Nokia has also confirmed that a Facebook app would be available on the device’s operating system. WhatsApp, however, is not supported. HMD has also added the ability to create a Wi-Fi hotspot using the Nokia 8110 4G, which shares the device’s data connection with other devices.  The Nokia 8110 4G is a feature phone with functional rather than impressive specifications, and is available in either yellow or black. The device includes a decent amount of onboard storage, a microSD slot which supports up to 64GB , and a 2MP rear camera with LED flash. Charging the 1,500mAh battery is done over microUSB, and the handset includes both GPS and Bluetooth. Speakers and a 3.5mm audio jack are also present on the phone, while the microphone has been relocated from the sliding plate to the body of the phone. The cherry on top: an FM radio chip. The specifications and international pricing of the Nokia 8110 4G are listed below. HMD Global has confirmed its new Nokia smartphones are coming to South Africa, including the 8110 4G. The device will be available from May 2018, with local pricing yet to be announced.   <span data-mce-type="bookmark" style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;" class="mce_SELRES_start">﻿</span>