OKI South Africa is offering businesses free mono pages when they purchase an eligible device from OKI’s comprehensive portfolio of advanced colour and mono office printers and multifunction printers (MFPs) until 30 April 2018. The “Maximum colour, zero mono cost” offer covers some of the most innovative LED colour printers and multifunction printers on the market, putting cost-effective professional quality printing within reach of every business. Designed to print mono at the same cost as a purely mono printer, these devices mean a business can meet all its workload requirements with a single versatile printer or MFP, while keeping costs firmly under control. Included in the promotion are OKI’s ground-breaking C500 Series, MC500 series, C800 Series and MC800 Series. These are highly advanced devices packed with functionality and improved connectivity that print mono or vibrant, vivid, pin-sharp colour on everything from business cards to banners, promotional point-of-sale materials and customer-facing documents. “With free mono pages, this limited time offer makes OKI’s unbeatable range of function-packed colour printers and MFPs for the office even more irresistible,” said Neil Rom, Managing Director of Printacom, OKI South Africa. “They have been designed to give every kind of business access to professional quality colour printing, while keeping a lid on costs. Printing mono on these devices costs no more than using a mono printer. Furthermore, with our fantastic offer of free mono pages, customers can experience how our professional quality colour printing and unrivalled media flexibility allows businesses the best of both worlds.” The promotion is available on printers bought between 01 February 2018 and 30 April 2018, and allows customers to claim free mono toner with the purchase of a C500 Series, C800 series printer or an MC500 Series or MC800 Series MFP. The printers at a glance: Visit www.okisa.co.za, call 011 553 2800 or email info@okisa.co.za for more information. This article was published in partnership with Printacom.