Elephone has introduced its flagship devices for 2018 – the Elephone U and Elephone U Pro – which are now on sale at Gearbest.com. Gearbest is offering both handsets at a discounted rate, starting at $349.99 – while stock lasts. Both devices feature an advanced curved AMOLED screen with an 18:9 aspect ratio coated in Corning Gorilla Glass 5, along with 6GB of RAM and 128GB of internal storage. The devices also sport a dual 13MP+13MP rear RGB and Mono camera combo to achieve better image quality and allow for SLR-level bokeh effect. The devices run Android 7.1 Nougat out of the box, with Android Oreo to come later, and are available in black and blue. Besides the discounted prices, the first 1,000 buyers of the Elephone U will receive a 3D protection film as a free gift from Gearbest with their purchase. The first 1,200 buyers of the Elephone U Pro will receive a 9V2A charger and 3D protection film with their purchase. The Elephone U is on sale on Gearbest for $349.99, while the Elephone U Pro is available for $419.99. Gearbest is also giving away Elephone U Pro handsets to five lucky winners – here’s how to enter: The specifications of the Elephone U and U Pro are detailed in the table below. The Elephone U and U Pro have been unlocked for Worldwide use, but you should ensure that your local network is compatible before purchasing the device. For first-time buyer assistance, you can find Gearbest’s South African-based partner on the MyBroadband Forum as GearBestZA. For more information, visit the Gearbest website.     Gearbest is offering users access to an affiliate program (https://affiliate.gearbest.com). Users can enjoy the full VIP level with up to 14% commission rates during the first 30 days that they join Gearbest’s affiliate program. After that, the commission rate level will depend on your sales. Gearbest also has several incentive campaigns on offer for users: If you would like to know more, you can contact GearBestZA via email on affiliate.gearbestsa@gmail.com.