New Star Networks South Africa (NSN SA), a Johannesburg-based hosted telephony solutions provider, has launched their Platinum Partner programme. The programme has proven to be a great success, with NSN SA growing from 11 to 51 partners on the day of the programme’s launch. One of the highlights that piqued partner interest at the event was the broad range of data solutions NSN had sourced to create a one-stop quoting shop for all requirements. Within a matter of hours of the Platinum Partner event ending, NSN received two new orders for over 120 hosted seats, with another 12 leads in play. Nick Shraga, NSN’s Managing Director, delivered a punchy presentation at the event, outlining how the NSN Hosted Telecoms Partner offering is the best value proposition in South Africa today. For NSN, no business is too small to get a premium service level, and it can offer an array of opportunities across the spectrum. This was echoed in a statement from Martin Spautz, MD at Southern Sons Group – one of the new partner sign-ups on the day. “We are happy to be part of NSN’s partner network from the beginning and are grateful that even small business will be taken into consideration to become part of NSN,” he said. Toni Johnson at Spaceform, another company which signed up as a partner on the day, explained that the Partner programme is a promising, innovative, and all-encompassing approach to hosted telephony solutions. “Space Form’s introduction to NSN was well received and fits strategically into our business plan of achieving a one-stop-shop service for our clientele.  The innovative approach adopted by NSN team, which encompasses various platforms to accommodate South Africa’s geographic footprint in the ICT sector, is a brilliant offering catering for the ever-evolving and fluid office environment. We look forward to a prosperous business venture between NSN and Space Form”. To become a partner or to get updates for the next NSN event, contact Nick Shraga via email at nick@nsn.co, or call 010 880 2090.  This article was published in partnership with New Star Networks.