The newly-launched Samsung Galaxy S9 and Galaxy S9+ are available for pre-order from Technomobi. The S9 and S9+ are set to arrive in South Africa on 9 March, and pre-orders for the device are now live. Technomobi is offering the S9 and S9+ at the following prices: Users who pre-order the S9 or S9+ through the online retailer will also receive Samsung Level U Flex Wireless Bluetooth earphones, a wireless charger, and a R500 voucher to purchase Samsung original accessories. Technomobi stated that ordering the Galaxy S9 and S9+ through its online store will be quick and easy, and one of its call centre agents will contact the customer to discuss deal options and to confirm the order once it is placed. The Samsung Galaxy S9 and S9+ will also be available on Vodacom contracts and upgrades from Technomobi, with pricing and contract details to be confirmed at a later date, said the retailer. In addition to this, Technomobi will deliver your new smartphone directly to your door – meaning customers can order and receive their new S9 and S9+ from the comfort of their home or office. Samsung said the smartphones “reimagine the way people communicate, share, and experience the world”, and pack in an array of awesome features. Many of these new features centre around the devices’ cameras, and Samsung said the Galaxy S9 and S9+ drive innovation with its advanced systems. “Redesigned with a new Dual Aperture lens that powers an innovative low-light camera, super slow-mo video capabilities, and personalised AR Emoji, the Galaxy S9 and S9+ ensure users do not miss a moment,” said Samsung. The Galaxy S9 and S9+ also feature an array of software features, including Bixby – Samsung’s intelligence platform – and the SmartThings app, which “unites Samsung’s existing IoT services into one single, smart experience”. Samsung DeX is also available for the new smartphones, in the form of the Dex Pad. The docking system lets users connect the Galaxy S9 and S9+ to a monitor, keyboard, and mouse. Other standout features of the S9 and S9+ include: The Galaxy S9 and S9+ will be available in Midnight Black, Titanium Grey, Coral Blue, and Lilac Purple.   This article was published in partnership with Technomobi.