A boatload of international series have just launched on Showmax and new movies, documentaries and local shows are added every week. Here’s a look at what to expect. (function(d, s, id) {  var js, fjs = d.getElementsByTagName(s)[0];  if (d.getElementById(id)) return;  js = d.createElement(s); js.id = id;  js.src = 'https://connect.facebook.net/en_GB/sdk.js#xfbml=1&version=v2.12';  fjs.parentNode.insertBefore(js, fjs);}(document, 'script', 'facebook-jssdk')); The Handmaid’s Tale S1  The Handmaid’s Tale is the story of life in the dystopia of Gilead, a totalitarian society in what was formerly the United States. As one of the few remaining fertile women, Offred (Elisabeth Moss) is a Handmaid in the Commander’s household, one of the caste of women forced into sexual servitude as a last desperate attempt to repopulate the world.  Watch now » The Cleaner S1-2  The Cleaner is an award-winning series about an addict who makes a promise to turn his life around and help other addicts – even if it takes extreme tactics to save them. Watch now » Killjoys S1  Killjoys hunt dangerous criminals in the worst parts of space in this action-packed series where no job is too tough or dangerous. Watch now » Emily Owens MD S1  Emily was a geek in school, so she hoped her surgery career would be different. But that might’ve been too much to ask for in this cute romantic drama. Watch now » The Collection S1 (BBC)  Scandal, drama, feuds and romance power the halls of an illustrious fashion house as two brothers try to raise it from the ashes. But can they avoid destroying each other? Watch now » No Tomorrow S1  Evie’s life is super ordered – and going nowhere. Then she meets the hunky Xavier, who might be perfect… except he thinks the world will end in a few months. Watch now » Thirteen S1 (BBC)  Ivy escapes from a house 13 years after she was first abducted. Soon she is reunited with her family, but not everything is what it seems in this mysterious drama. Watch now » American Crime S1 – S2  A simple crime can cause worlds to collide in this brilliant, award-winning crime drama anthology, where good intentions can be as dangerous as bad acts… Watch now » Under the Dome S1 – S3  Local residents wake up to find their town covered by a transparent dome. Can they escape before they destroy each other? Based on a Stephen King novel. Watch now » The L-Word S1 – S6  Enjoy this long-running and award-winning drama about the lives and loves of a group of women in LA, with all the hookups, breakups… and everything in between. Watch now » Sleeper Cell S1 – S2  When you’re deep undercover in the middle of a terrorist cell planning an attack on homegrown soil, who can you trust? Don’t miss this intense and nail-biting series. Watch now » For first-time customers, Showmax is offering a no-strings-attached 14-day free trial – no charge will be made until trial ends. After the trial ends, Showmax costs R99 per month, but there are no contracts, so you can cancel at any time. For DStv Premium customers, however, Showmax is available at no extra cost, and subscribers can find out more about how to sign up for Showmax with DStv here. For more information and to sign up for your free 14-day trial, visit the Showmax website. This article was published in partnership with Showmax.