For the past 45 years, Nashua has been transforming South African workspaces with scalable and adaptable solutions – from access control and communication to data and document management. Their comprehensive range of products and solutions aims to be agile and flexible enough to fit into any company’s operations, while ensuring that Nashua’s iconic pay-off line – “Saving you time. Saving you money. Putting you first.” – is a reality for its customers. As such, Nashua has shifted its focus from “box dropping” over the past 5 years, transforming itself from being a product to a solutions-focused company. The company works closely with clients to increase business productivity, offering the latest hardware and software technology to assist in streamlining business operations. Unlike its competitors, Nashua is a wholly-owned South African company – rather than an international manufacturer with local offices – and as such, understands the local market intrinsically. Furthermore, because it is not an OEM, Nashua is also able to provide customers with state-of- the- art technology from globally-recognised and trusted sources. Nashua prides itself on being a business that moves with the times and has constantly evolved with its customers, which is reflected in its journey over the past 45 years. Nashua South Africa was established in 1973 as a subsidiary of the USA-based Nashua Corporation, whose main line of business was the sale and service of liquid toner copiers. Fast-forward to a decade later and Nashua had become the market leader in the South African photocopier market with a 35% market share. In the 1990’s, Nashua was acquired by the diversified JSE-listed electronics group Reunert Limited, which regularly ranks among South Africa’s top companies. Today, Nashua is operational in 8 sub-Saharan countries with over 60 points-of- contact and has grown to employ over 2,500 customer-focused staff. While Nashua’s offering has evolved and changed considerably since operations begun in 1973, one thing has remained constant throughout Nashua’s journey – its commitment to excellence and customer-service. To prove this, Nashua offers Free Office Assessments across southern Africa – involving a comprehensive examination of your business environment and its functions – at no cost to you. This includes an investigation into size, layout, equipment, software, and processes to develop effective and efficient business solutions. These unique solutions are tailored for each business to boost productivity and minimise costs. For more information, click here. This article was published in partnership with Nashua.