Samsung has unveiled its Galaxy S9 and Galaxy S9+ ,which are set to arrive in South Africa on 9 March. The Galaxy S9 and S9+ have received several new features compared to their predecessors, and are set to take on Apple’s iPhone X, and iPhone 8 and 8 Plus. Among these features is a new dual-aperture camera system, which lets the camera automatically adapt to various lighting conditions, said Samsung. Samsung has also added a dual-camera setup to the Galaxy S9+, after introducing the feature with the Galaxy Note 8. The camera innovations do not stop there, with super slow-motion video recording (960fps at 720p), Live Translation, and Intelligent Scan – a combination of iris and facial recognition – implemented. Like the iPhone X and iPhone 8, the Galaxy S9 range also supports 1080p video recording at 240fps. Following Apple’s introduction of Animojis with the iPhone X in 2017, Samsung has added augmented reality emoji stickers and videos called AR Emoji. An initial hands-on of AR Emoji by Tom’s Hardware stated that “Samsung’s animated emoji are more lifelike than Apple’s”. “Your face and voice are used to animate what is supposed to look like a three-dimensional cartoon version of yourself,” stated the publication. The way the Apple and Samsung systems work is slightly different. Animoji reacts to a 3D wireframe of your face and overlays animated characters on top of that. AR Emoji aims to create a cartoon 3D model of your face from which to generate animated GIFs, stickers, and videos. Predicting device performance based on spec sheets is never a good idea, as the hardware and software combining in a smartphone is a complex experience. AnandTech obtained a Samsung Galaxy S9 test device powered by Samsung’s new Exynos 9810 chip, however, and put it through a few benchmarks. It is worth noting that South Africa receives Exynos-based flagship smartphones from Samsung. Results from Geekbench 4 indicate a significant performance boost between the Exynos 8890 processor in the Galaxy S8 compared to the Exynos 9810 in the S9 and S9+. The table below details the hardware and pricing of the Galaxy S9 range and the iPhone X. The Galaxy S9 and S9+ are available with various storage capacities, but South African retailers are predominantly selling the 64GB Galaxy S9 and 128GB Galaxy S9+.  The table below details the hardware and pricing of the Galaxy S9 range and the iPhone 8 range.  