Whether you have 10, 50, or 100 employees in your office, there is always one constant – all of them want a fast, stable, wireless Internet connection for their devices. The plural “devices” is not used flippantly here – a modern workplace sees an employee connecting their work PC, smartphone, tablet, and more to an office’s Wi-Fi network, with the expectation of solid throughput for the duration of the day. The surge in the number of connected devices an average office has to cater for is not the only challenge – delivering a high-speed Internet connection through a wireless channel is just as important. Fibre connectivity is growing rapidly in South Africa, with 100Mbps connections commonplace in many businesses. For companies who are not afraid to spend on a fibre line, a 1Gbps service is now also a reality. The combined requirement of serving multiple devices simultaneously and ensuring that the high-speed connection delivering that throughput is fully taken advantage of means companies must have a high-end business router. ASUS has a long history of delivering high-quality Wi-Fi routers to consumers and businesses, which is evident in its winning of the PC Magazine Reader’s Choice award for the past six years (2012 – 2017). ASUS has multiple offerings which can solve many Wi-Fi-related business demands, of which the ASUS BRT-AC828 stands out. The BRT-AC828 router is a dual-band device – with 2.4GHz and 5GHz channels – which features 4×4 MIMO antenna design and ASUS AiRadar beamforming. This ensures strong connections to all devices on a network, with the router supporting up to 250 simultaneous client connections. ASUS has also equipped the BRT-AC828 with dual physical WAN ports for ultimate speed and reliability, with up to 2Gbps aggregated bandwidth and failover capabilities. Physical connections to the router are also catered for, with Link Aggregation on eight Gigabit LAN ports enabling 4Gbps LAN transfer speeds. “The BRT-AC828 is designed for growing companies on the path to greatness. Whether you’re a startup or an established player, in any sphere of business from the smallest restaurant to the largest retail store, the BRT-AC828 can help you connect to success,” said ASUS.  Ensuring that multiple devices can connect to your office router and that these devices are receiving the full speed of the Internet connection backing the Wi-Fi network is only half the battle, however. Security is as important as Internet speed in a business environment, with a vulnerable Wi-Fi network an easy path for cybercriminals to access sensitive information or employee data. The ASUS BRT-AC828 covers all the security bases thanks to its high-end security standards – including AiProtection, VLAN, and IPsec VPN. These security measures ensure sensitive data is protected while travelling over the network and that employees are not compromised. The AiProtection in the router is a commercial-grade security solution for your network, which performs a 14-point inspection of critical security settings. This includes the identification of, and tips on how to combat, the following: AiProtection also features a built-in Intrusion Prevention System, which provides multi-point protection for every connected device. Having a highly-secure network does introduce a problem for many businesses, though, particularly companies which deal with external clients, consultants, or suppliers – letting a non-employee use your office’s Internet connection. ASUS is on top of this potential issue, too, with the BRT-AC828 offering Guest Network functionality. The Guest Network feature allows the router admin to create a guest Wi-Fi network – complete with its own SSID – which gives visitors the ability to use your company’s Internet connection while staying away from the office’s secured channels. The feature also allows an admin to implement a timeout setting for connections to limit the duration of a visitor’s session. A unique landing page with a background image may be set for the connection, giving visitors exposure to your brand while they go online. ASUS’s free Wi-Fi Portal functionality with the BRT-AC828 is another option for non-employee use, and lets a business set up a free Wi-Fi welcome page for customers. The free Wi-Fi portal features a user-friendly graphical menu system, which means users do not have to worry about complex network settings, while the portal’s welcome page can be used to direct users to a promotion page to boost a promotion’s results. This can be set up in three easy steps, thanks to ASUS’s easy-to-use router UI. ASUS has extended the “timeout” feature of the BRT-AC828 to all channels its router offers, too. This is to take care of the dreaded “my employees spend the whole day on YouTube” scenario. A router admin can block or allow Internet access to users based on a schedule, and assign a security level or parental controls to each device connected to the router. This is done using a device’s MAC addresses, to ensure any restrictions are applied individually. Another great feature of the router is its internal M.2 SATA slot for fast networked SSD storage. This provides fast onboard storage and acts as a built-in mini-NAS for backup and file storage – which is essential for many businesses. ASUS is recognized internationally as a leading Wi-Fi router brand, and its BRT-AC828 router brings this reputation to the office environment. The device is compatible with Windows 10 and Mac OS X, ensuring it is suitable for any business. The BRT-AC828 is available from Mustek, and has a recommended retail price of R7,999. For more information on the ASUS BRT-AC828, please contact AletV@mustek.co.za or call 011 237 1233. This article was published in partnership with ASUS.