Netshield, a leading supplier of technology hardware, software, and services, introduced its online store in South Africa in 2017 to expand its customer and reseller support. This strategy has enabled Netshield to offer customers an easy way to order a myriad of Netshield products directly from the company – eliminating time-consuming order processing. According to Inus Dreckmeyr, CEO at Netshield South Africa, local resellers have been facing challenges in terms of getting orders fulfilled through traditional channels, particularly smaller orders that are needed urgently in a break/fix environment. “One such challenge was having to call or email every supplier or distributor to source the best prices, then confirm if they have stock on hand, and finally fill in the necessary paperwork to get the order processed. This onerous process takes time that could be better spent advising customers, supplying paying services, or simply getting the job done much quicker without having to wait weeks for some of the more consumable items that we stock,” states Dreckmeyr. Through their online store, Netshield provides an online shopping destination for its resellers that includes the company’s full range of imported products. The product range covers information technology infrastructure, including product ranges such as transceiver SFP, SFP+, QSFP, and QSFP28 modules, media converters, PoE modules, Ethernet switches, fibre patch leads, and compatible Cisco cables – to name a few. The platform also aims to simplify the process of checking for availability of stock, getting quotes, and placing orders. This means that resellers no longer have to wait weeks for order fulfilment for these products, which are often the glue holding an environment together. “Today’s customers want instant feedback. If they don’t get it, they will turn to another supplier, so we are effectively allowing them to cut through the red tape and get straight to the source. For resellers, this means no more long waiting periods for pricing and availability or for suppliers to get back to them. It puts the control of their business back in their hands,” says Dreckmeyr. To obtain pricing and availability of fibre connectivity products quickly and easily, visit the Netshield online store. This article was published in partnership with Netshield.