AMD recently unveiled its new Ryzen 2nd-generation processors, which boast improved clock speeds and integrated graphics. The chips are positioned to compete against Intel’s 8th-gen Core i3 and Core i5 processors – and are priced accordingly. The new Ryzen 2000 lineup consists of two chips so far – the Ryzen 2200G and Ryzen 2400G. Each chip sports integrated graphics built on AMD’s Radeon Vega architecture, along with four physical CPU cores. Intel’s 8th-gen Core processors are built on its Coffee Lake architecture, the third refinement of its 14nm manufacturing process. AMD’s Ryzen 2000 chips are built on the Zen+ architecture, which is a refined version of the architecture the first generation of Ryzen processors are built on. To see how they stack up against Intel’s latest CPUs, we compared the specifications and pricing of the chips. All AMD Ryzen desktop chips can be overclocked, while only Intel 8th-gen chips with the “K” designation can be overclocked when paired with a Z370 motherboard. The two Ryzen 2000 desktop chips are compatible with AMD’s AM4 chipset, which is the same socket used by the previous generation of Ryzen processors. The specifications and pricing of the AMD Ryzen 2000 chips and their Intel 8th-gen Core counterparts are detailed below. The processors compared above all have built-in graphics processors, although the performance of these can vary according to GPU clock speed and the number of cores included on the die. All Intel chips included in this comparison make use of the company’s UHD Graphics 630 GPU, while the Ryzen 2200G and Ryzen 2400G sport Radeon Vega 8 and Radeon Vega 11 graphics units respectively. There is currently little third-party performance information available for the upcoming Ryzen chips, but AMD’s press slides indicate that the Ryzen 2200G boasts almost double the GPU performance of Intel’s Core i5-8400. This could be true for certain applications, as AMD and Intel have historically used architectures which focus on different optimisations. AMD’s Ryzen 2000 chips are expected to launch in South Africa on 27 February.