Huawei Technologies is piloting its 4K video streaming solution in a residential complex in Sandton, Johannesburg. In a first for South Africa, supported by Telkom’s deployment of a 100mbps fibre to the home (FTTH), residents can watch ultra HD TV with the fastest internet speed. “There has been much talk about 4K video and while 4K TV sets have been available in South Africa for a couple of years, content and affordable high speed internet connections have been a barrier to growth,” says Jet Liu, Director of Video Solution, Huawei Southern Africa Region. With Telkom’s high speed fibre network and Huawei’s 4K TV solution, residents will have access to the best 4K video streaming experience. “This pilot project is in response to the demand we have witnessed in the South African market, and we want to showcase our commercially ready solution.” says Liu. 4K, also known as UHD (Ultra-High Definition) has a higher pixel density, giving a clearer, better defined picture. However it’s not only about sharpness, it’s about letting the viewer see more detail and texture. Watching 4k TV is likened to being there yourself. Since SONY broadcast the FIFA World Cup in UHD in Brazil in 2014, 4K video has been deployed world-wide with the US, Europe, China, Japan and South Korea taking the lead. South Africa is embracing the new era. According to a report from IHS Markit, a London based market information and analysis provider, 4K TV sales in South Africa in 2017 were projected to be 150 000 units with the cheapest price below R6000.00. 4K content is available in South Africa, through OTTs and TV channels. Globally carriers like Deutsche Telecom, British Telecom and China Telecom Sichuan are seeing significant growth in their 4K video services. Huawei as a leading ICT solutions provider, aims to enable carriers to deliver video as basic service for new growth in the era of rising mobile data volumes and declining traditional voice revenues. Liu says Huawei has the capability and experience to provide its telecoms partners with an end-to-end video solution. This includes constructing the best video experience network with high efficiency and low cost and building an open and collaborate video platform to attract ecosystem partners to provide better and more content for end users. Liu added, that based on the idea of value-oriented network construction, Huawei is ready to work with carriers in identifying High-Value residential area, and attract other ecosystem partners including content providers to better serve customers. This article was published in partnership with Huawei.