While Android TV boxes are mainly used for watching media, their powerful CPUs and graphics processors make them great for playing games as well. The MyGica ATV1960 Android media box, for example, is powered by an ARM Cortex-A53 and includes an ARM Mali-T820MP3 graphics processor. Thanks to the countless gaming apps available on the Google Play store, Android TV boxes like the MyGica ATV1960 can be an affordable and capable alternative to gaming consoles. Like most media players, however, its remote control is simply not built for gaming and if you don’t want to struggle with your controls, you’re going to need to invest in a controller.  Gaming controllers are extremely useful devices, but they can have compatibility problems and give issues during setup – with each gaming platform using their own connectivity technology and their own designs. Sparkfox aims to address this issue and make gaming easier with its Atlas multi-platform gamepad, offering compatibility with PC and Android devices. The device sports a similar design to an Xbox One controller, with rubberised side grips and an A, X, Y, B button layout. The Atlas controller is a wireless gamepad with numerous connectivity options and can also be set up in a wired configuration using the included MicroUSB cable. Also included with the Sparkfox Atlas is a USB OTG cable for wired connectivity and a USB wireless dongle. The Atlas is powered by two AA batteries and features a dedicated holder for its wireless dongle at the bottom of the device. This combination of Xbox-like design and multiple configurations allows the controller to adapt to any situation and platform. The Sparkfox Atlas supports low-latency 2.4GHz wireless connectivity, Bluetooth, and wired connections, making it easy to connect and start gaming. Connecting wirelessly is as easy as either inserting the included wireless dongle into your device or activating Bluetooth, followed by turning on the controller and connecting to the device. The Sparkfox Atlas also makes it easy to set up your control scheme, depending on which platform you are playing on. Once the Atlas is connected to a device, the user can easily switch between DInput and XInput modes at a press of the home button. While DInput is great for mobile gaming and various third-party or ported PC titles, most PC games on Steam and the Windows Store are automatically compatible with Xbox controllers. When set to XInput mode, the Atlas is recognised as an Xbox One controller for Windows and is automatically set up for most PC games – with no effort required.  The flexibility of the Atlas controller means that while it is great to use with Android media players like the MyGica ATV1960, it is equally good for PC gaming. The controller fit well in your hands and everything from its vibration feedback to its trigger mechanisms feel solid. The Atlas’s Bluetooth connectivity also delivered responsive, low-latency performance when playing. Using a wired configuration is easy, too, with the included 3m braided cable providing more than enough room for comfortable gaming sessions. The central focus of the Sparkfox Atlas is its multiple connection modes and cross-platform compatibility, and the implementation of these features is impressive. Connecting to a mobile device was just as painless, and the controller was automatically supported by my smartphone’s Android 7.0 OS. The Sparkfox Atlas is also well priced, currently selling for R479 from Takealot.  The MyGica ATV1960 Android media box runs Android 6.0 and is a great home entertainment solution that can also be used for playing games. It features Wi-Fi connectivity and a remote control with a keyboard on the back – which means putting in your Wi-Fi password is a breeze. It also comes pre-installed with great apps, including Kodi Media Centre, Chrome, Netflix, YouTube, Facebook, and more. This means that once you have signed in and connected the device to your monitor or TV with MyGica’s included HDMI cable, you are ready to go. Other standout features of the MyGica ATV1960 include 3GB of DDR4 RAM, 16GB eMMC and up to 128GB MicroSD storage, and up to 4K 60fps video output. With services like Netflix and YouTube growing their 4K content libraries daily, having 4K video output on your media device is a must. The simple plug-and-play setup of the MyGica ATV1960 makes it straightforward for anyone to use, and the included HDMI cable and remote control with keyboard on the back top off a quick and smooth installation process – letting you get straight to your favourite content. The MyGica ATV1960 is currently selling for R2,999 at Incredible Connection. If you are looking for a great media player and a solid gaming experience, the combination of the MyGica ATV1960 and Sparkfox Atlas wireless controller may be the right one for you. For more information on these products, visit the Syntech website. This article was published in partnership with Syntech.