HMD Global has unveiled the Nokia 7 Plus and the Nokia 8 Sirocco. The Nokia 7 Plus will offer a user experience close to that of a flagship Android smartphone, but at a more affordable price, said the company. It is made from 6000-series aluminium, and HMD said its six layers of ceramic paint on the device allow the elimination of antenna lines without compromising antenna placement. In fact, the company said this has optimised antenna placement – as it is completely RF transparent. “You’ll get great connectivity, fewer dropped calls, and lower battery consumption from not needing to boost antenna power all of the time,” said HMD Global. Thanks to its partnership with Qualcomm, HMD said it was able to optimise the Nokia 7 Plus to offer a two-day battery life. The Nokia 8 Sirocco, on the other hand, was designed with a mindset of “nothing holding the company back”. The Sirocco name has historically been associated with premium Nokia phones, and the company said it “felt apt to bring back that name for this device”. The Nokia 8 Sirocco is machined out of stainless steel, which is 2.5-times stronger than 6000-series aluminium, and has a 3D Gorilla Glass 5 wrapper around the device. In HMD Global’s quality tests, the Nokia 8 could withstand 450 pounds of pressure – roughly 204kg. Its 5.5-inch POLED 2K screen is curved at the sides and along the top and bottom of the display for a bezel-less look, while its combination of hardware optimisations make it perform higher than the original Nokia 8. The Nokia 7 Plus and Nokia 8 feature a dual-camera system with Zeiss optics. They have a wide-angle lens over a 12MP sensor, and a telephoto lens over a 13MP sensor. Both devices come with Nokia’s Pro Camera application that offers manual control over the camera’s settings. New AI-powered imaging software can also help remove haze from shots, and adds the ability to add masks to dual-shot “bothie” photos – which use the front and back cameras. It also powers a face unlocking feature to complement the fingerprint sensors, as well as 3D personas similar to Apple’s Animoji characters on the iPhone X. Nokia’s 360-degree spatial audio capturing is available on both devices. The Nokia 7 Plus will be available from April 2018 at around €399. The Nokia 8 Sirocco will be available in April, and its recommended retail price will be around €749. As with the second-generation Nokia 6, the Nokia 7 Plus and Nokia 8 Sirocco will be part of Google’s Android One programme.  