MultiChoice recently announced that it was working on 4K streaming for its DStv Now app. An upgrade to 4K will be welcomed by many consumers who own 4K monitors and 4K TVs. For online streaming service customers, such as Netflix users, 4K content has been available to them for a while, however – which begs the question: Why is 4K only now being tested by DStv Now? The answer, in part, is due to the nature of live streaming – including live sports events. A cornerstone of DStv Now’s offering is its SuperSport channels – which offer live sport from around the world. MultiChoice told MyBroadband that live streaming presents additional challenges compared to standard video on demand (VOD) content, thanks to the immediate turnaround of content to customers. “In comparison, VOD is easier as VOD files can processed and re-processed until a suitable file is created,” said a MultiChoice spokesman. The playback of VOD content uses a different CDN/network streaming architecture as compared to live streaming in the case of DStv, he added. Another crucial element when it comes to live streaming is that DStv may depend on an input stream from a third-party provider. “In the case of our 4K trial, we had to use partners who could ingest the FIFA World Cup feed broadcast from Russia, downlink in London, have the necessary encoding hardware to support 4K live streams over satellite and decode over IP, and then deliver completely over the cloud.” This results in more integration points for live streaming as opposed to encoding and making available a file for VOD streaming, he said. Live streaming video is also constantly updating and needs to be pulled into cache, with dependencies on multiple systems functioning in a chain, said MultiChoice. “With a VOD asset, fragments are more static and once stored on the caching servers it’s rare that the file would need to be re-populated into cache. There are fewer dependencies on other systems when delivering content.” Storage, network, and other infrastructure can be planned in advance for VOD streaming – while live streaming is much less predictable.