MTN launched new fixed-LTE packages to home users this week, offering a variety of data bundles with an LTE router. The MTN Made for Home deals start at R369 per month – for 15GB of Anytime data and 15GB of Night Express data – and go up to R1,469 per month for the top package. MTN’s new Made for Home packages are detailed in the table below MTN stated that top-up data bundles are also available for the service, and come in daily or monthly varieties, for use anytime or during Night Express hours. These start at 250MB and go up to 100GB in size. If you are interested in a fixed-LTE package from MTN, you must note the usage restrictions. The LTE offering is sold as a fixed-location service, where the SIM, router, and location are linked. Customers must enquire from MTN if their areas – and respective network towers – are covered by the service, and then apply for a package. Each coverage area has a limited number of slots available. “Base stations have a limited number of available slots, dependent on their capacity,” states the MTN website. Jacqui O’Sullivan, Executive for Corporate Affairs at MTN SA, told MyBroadband that MTN Made for Home packages are tower dependent, and available within fixed-LTE coverage areas. “Customers need to confirm that the location where they intend to use the product is within the coverage area. Best results are achieved when the product is used within the specific area,” said O’Sullivan. The number of slots available per tower varies between base stations, added O’Sullivan. This also means that if you buy a Made for Home package and move to a new house or office, for example, you will need to apply to MTN again to see if your area has coverage and slots available in the relevant base stations. If there is no coverage or slot available, the customer will be advised to migrate to a mobile data price plan, states the MTN website. Fixed-LTE customers will not be penalised for the migration, it added. In terms of download speeds on the fixed-LTE packages, O’Sullivan said they will leverage the MTN LTE network and the speeds will align accordingly.