Cell C has introduced price hikes to its products, which kicked in on 1 July 2018. The changes affect several contract tariff plans, including Pinnacle, Connector, StraightUp, Epic, SmartChat, ChatMore, and others. Top-up plans affected by the price changes include Pinnacle, StraightUp, Epic, and SmartChat. The new data-centric Pinnacle postpaid and top-up plans the company launched on 1 June are not affected by the price adjustments. Cell C said that in terms of its subscriber agreements, as well as the Consumer Protection Act, the company has the option of varying its charges from time to time. These charges include connection fees, subscription fees, usage charges, SIM card fees, goods fees, and any charges relating to the provision of Cell C’s services. It is not the first time Cell C, or other network providers, have increased the prices of their products without advanced warning. Cell C introduced its first wide-ranging price hikes in February 2015 after announcing increases in contract and data pricing in the middle of December the year before. This came after the company changed its data billing increment and increased its out-of-bundle data tariff by 560% during 2014. In 2016, Cell C increased its data bundle prices – also on 1 July – then in February 2017 it again introduced wide-ranging increases to its product portfolio. This included prepaid and contract price hikes, as well as another set of increases to its data bundles. Cell C skipped the February price hike in 2018, but adjusted its prices when Treasury increased the VAT rate from 14% to 15% in April. These latest price hikes are summarised in the tables below. Cell C told MyBroadband it has increased the monthly subscription fees and certain out-of-bundle rates on its legacy voice contracts. “These contracts are in the process of being phased out as part of a decision to simplify our product offerings. The new Pinnacle and Pinnacle Premium contracts were not affected, and customers are able to migrate. None of Cell C’s data products were affected,” said Cell C. “We notified affected customers via SMS around 1 June, with another reminder on 21-22 June.”