In April 2018, MyBroadband partnered with Afristay and Samsung to launch South Africa’s largest-ever mobile network testing project. The project was aimed at providing a good overview of cellular network quality in South Africa and included controlled drive tests by MyBroadband, which tested mobile network quality in all major metropolitan areas, secondary cities, large towns, and main roads. Drive testing was also done by dedicated drivers in South Africa’s major cities, with daily tests in different areas of the cities. The project ran from April to June, and over this period we travelled over 30,000km to test mobile data speeds in the country. MyBroadband partnered with Samsung for the tests, and used Samsung Galaxy S9, Galaxy S8, and Galaxy S7 smartphones for the project. The smartphones were mounted on test benches and ran custom MyBroadband Speed Test App software which tested the mobile networks at regular intervals while driving. MyBroadband’s Speed Test servers are hosted in Teraco’s vendor-neutral data centres to ensure a neutral testing environment.  Over the three months of the project, 309,000 speed tests were performed on South Africa’s mobile networks. The results showed: MTN and Vodacom offered the best network performance to subscribers, while Cell C had the worst average performance. Newly-launched Rain performed well in Gauteng, but had the worst performance of all operators in Durban and Cape Town. What we found while travelling across South Africa was that we were connected via LTE in most areas, and where there was no LTE coverage we could connect to HSPA. We were only left without coverage in areas like valleys, mountain passes, and deep rural areas. The maps below provide an overview of where MyBroadband tested the country’s mobile network quality. A single red dot with a green circle around it indicates a speed test. Multiple tests in an area are indicated by larger red patches.      MTN and Vodacom were expected to dominate the speed test results, which is exactly what we found. Prominent results based on MyBroadband’s speed test project are shown below. The Eastern Cape results were the first to include Rain Mobile, and the updated Cell C “orange” logo colour.          