Employment has been declining over the past two decades and South Africa’s workforce is not future-proof, highlighting the need for upskilling in the country, according to Statistics SA. Figures released by Statistics SA in May 2018 reveal that 35% of young people between the ages of 24 and 35 are unemployed, and nearly 3 million are not currently in training, education, or actively job-seeking. Of those who are employed, nearly 75% of are low-skilled or semi-skilled. South Africa’s unemployment rate is high for both youth and adults, and while upskilling and continued learning is key to gaining a competitive edge in the job market, many are discouraged by the labour market and few are building on their skills base through education and training. This is affecting the ability of local businesses to innovate and modernise because workers don’t have the skills they need to succeed in increasingly digital and technology-driven workplaces. In turn, this limits businesses’ ability to generate higher growth, better profits, and more jobs. To gain a competitive edge in the job market, professionals need to future-proof their careers and upskill. This is especially true as technology advances and more sophisticated skills are required. According to Expert Group’s Future Skills Needs report, “as the shelf life of skills is becoming shorter, engagement in lifelong learning for those in employment will be key to their continued employability”. Ongoing professional learning and education is one of the strongest predictors of employability and salary, and upskilling can increase potential employment prospects, reduce the chances of redundancy, and makes it easier to transition to better positions or even make career changes, the report added. Part-time courses are a great way for professionals to gain the education they need to advance their careers, as students don’t have to attend classes during the day to get through course content and can study at their own pace. Private colleges, such as Damelin¸ offer courses that range from short and skills programmes to degrees and diplomas, allowing professionals to add respected qualifications to their CVs. Damelin’s offerings include: short courses in project management, business administration and management, and office administration; diplomas in public administration, public relations, and information technology; and degrees in accounting, information management, marketing, and much more. These part-time courses are geared towards preparing students and professionals for a successful career, and the Damelin campus atmosphere encourages student-learning. There are 18 campuses, positioned in every major hub nationwide. Damelin’s approach combines the concept of team commitment and a strong focus on each student, including face-to-face classes, air-conditioned classrooms, fully-equipped libraries, and designated student recreational areas. The campuses also feature fully-equipped computer labs with Internet access. For more information, visit the Damelin website.  This article was published in partnership with Damelin.