Consider a partnership founded in solving one of top 5 things that keeps executives up at night. Consider scaling your business regionally and commercially without risk of your customer data getting exposed. Consider the most innovative cyber security company getting into bed with the smartest converged network in South Africa. “10dot is a cyber security software company. We design and build our own security tech built for Africa. We recently joined forces with Echo Service Provider to secure corporate WAN”, announces Jared van Ast, 10dot founder and CEO. “Cyber Security and SDWAN are business critical. With the deep skillsets and products that 10dot and Echo now marry, we’re raising the benchmark in Africa”, says Jared. 10dot Cloud Security (PTY) Ltd, founded in 2014, has a sharp focus on quality security software design, development and managed services. 10dot is South Africa’s fastest growing cyber security company and has sights firmly squared to #HackProof Africa and Europe. Echo Service Provider (Echo) is an independent integrator of advanced network and cloud computing services, founded in 2010 by Grant Thom, Ant Southgate, and Angus MacRobert. “Echo provides Global ISP Services via a multi-carrier converged network. We’re able to do this by aggregating more than 100 network and hosting infrastructures. We’re the single point of accountability to our customers.” States Grant Thom, Echo’s Executive Director and co-founder. So why the partnership? “Scale in Africa is a prerequisite to success. Yet practically there are still operational risks that disable rapid growth. Business should be able to collect and transmit real time critical data from Lagos to Nairobi, to enable operational efficiencies in Port Louis. Transactional growth opportunities, efficiencies, cost cutting – these all require an integrated, scalable and secure corporate network. Businesses need stability and security they can count on” comments Jared van Ast. The partnership between Echo and 10dot allows for business to engage with a single partner to service and secure them across geographies and providers. “Echo’s partnership with 10dot complements our delivery of Corporate SDWAN, cloud and communication services – enhancing our ability to connect, protect and securely deliver our customer’s data assets”, adds Grant. This article was published in partnership with 10dot Cloud Security.