With a saturated ISP market in South Africa, it has become increasingly important for ISPs to differentiate themselves from their competitors and run an efficient and cost-effective business. Arguably, what everyone wants from their ISP is a fast service that is good value for money and offers a high amount of strong uptime. MyOwn ISP believes in exactly that – fast, strong, and affordable Internet that is convenient to use. According to MyOwn ISP, dynamite comes in small packages, and there is no better statement to describe their team – small, but dynamic. With this outlook, and over 10 years of fibre-to-the-home experience in gated communities and estates, MyOwn ISP’s level of customer service and fibre knowledge surpasses that of their competitors. MyOwn ISP provides a variety of packages on various networks – giving each subscriber more choices and more freedom. This includes uncapped and unshaped packages at competitive prices, and there are no complicated algorithms to manage a subscriber’s usage on the back-end. All packages are also offered on a month-to-month subscription, with no added or hidden fees, termination clauses, or other surprises – making MyOwn ISP one of the most transparent ISPs in South Africa. Addtionally, the company manages deployed hardware remotely which allows the team to resolve over 80% of queries from the Helpdesk, remotely, to save the subscriber time and frustration. Uncapped packages include: Package availability and pricing varies between suburbs or estates. “MyOwn ISP is represented by an extremely effective, young, and fun team,” said MyOwn ISP. “Our logo represents the diversity of our team and company, and its colours represent our adaptability to market needs and changes when we listen to our subscribers’ requirements. ” “There aren’t a lot of ISP’s that are able to do the same. We provide solutions with value-added services as a one-stop shop for all Internet requirements at the home or business.” For more information or to sign up, visit the MyOwn ISP website or Call 086 1122 832 (Option 2) This article was published in partnership with ATEC.