As high-end graphics cards go, you’d be hard-pressed to find a more powerful device than AMD’s Radeon RX Vega 64. The GPU pairs impressive horsepower with the latest memory technology on the market to deliver next-generation performance. AMD pushed the envelope of GPU design with its Vega cards, using second-generation High-Bandwidth Memory (HBM2) for the cards’ VRAM instead of the more traditional GDDR5. This increased memory bandwidth paired with a powerful stream processor array makes the card an absolute beast, capable of tearing through anything you can throw at it – including 4K gaming. It also provides this level of performance at a much higher level of efficiency than previous-generation Radeon GPUs and is capable of delivering high-quality, smooth VR gaming out of the box. To see how powerful the RX Vega 64 is, we got our hands on a PowerColor Radeon RX Vega 64 Red Devil and put it through its paces, testing its performance across a number of situations. The card sports a large, triple-fan air cooling system complete with back plate which keeps the powerful card relatively cool under all workloads. The AMD Radeon RX Vega 64 is also available with a liquid cooler, which improves cooling potential and allows for higher stock clock speeds. The specifications of the Radeon RX Vega 64 provided to MyBroadband are below. The Radeon RX Vega is a powerful graphics card with impressive gaming capabilities, and many of its best features are shown through AMD’s much-improved driver and GPU management software. AMD’s Adrenalin drivers are designed to improve the performance of graphics cards with the latest hardware, such as Radeon RX Vega and RX 500-series GPUs. Software updates for the Radeon RX Vega 64 have delivered great performance improvements across numerous titles, making it notably more powerful in many games than it was at its launch. Due to its unique architecture and the inclusion of next-generation HBM2 memory, the Radeon RX Vega 64 can deliver impressive performance in optimised titles and usually sees significant performance improvements as drivers are built to leverage its full potential. In addition to improving the performance of the Radeon RX Vega cards, AMD’s Adrenalin drivers also boast a selection of new and powerful features, including: <span data-mce-type="bookmark" style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;" class="mce_SELRES_start">﻿</span> The availability of AMD cards worldwide were severally constrained in recent months, due to the rising demand for cryptocurrency mining hardware, and the Radeon RX Vega 64’s launch coincided with a massive surge in the price of cryptocurrencies. This meant the graphics card was immediately snatched up by crypto miners and gamers were hard-pressed to buy one of the cutting-edge GPUs. The graphics cards are now back in stock at great prices, however, making them an attractive option for high-resolution and VR gamers. Currently, AMD’s Radeon RX Vega 56 and 64 graphics cards are priced at around R8,699 and R11,899 respectively from local retailers. The first thing you notice when opening the graphics card’s packaging is just how big the device’s cooler is, extending far past the edge of the Radeon RX Vega’s PCB. This graphics card is obviously meant for high-end machines built around performance, judging by its large heat sink and aggressive design. Powercolor’s Radeon RX Vega 64 Red Devil is powered by two 8-pin PCIe power slots and features a BIOS switch with three different modes – Silent, Standard, and OC. Images of the PowerColor Radeon RX Vega 64 out of its box are posted below.    After unboxing the powerful GPU, we installed it in a PC and updated its drivers to the latest version to make use of AMD’s performance improvements and software features. We then threw everything we had at the graphics card, and it didn’t even break a sweat. Running games at 1080p on Ultra settings is a cakewalk for the Radeon RX Vega 64, and it breezed through demanding titles like The Witcher 3 and Deus Ex: Mankind Divided. In tests running The Witcher 3 and Grand Theft Auto V, the card achieved well over 100 frames per second in gameplay, with graphics settings on Ultra. This included the MSAA – Multisample anti-aliasing – setting on the highest option. The card is so powerful, it can also easily handle games at 1440p and 4K, delivering great framerates while maintaining good graphics quality. Tests have shown that modern titles in 4K see well above 60fps with graphics settings on high when played with the AMD Radeon RX Vega 64. If you are gaming in 1080p, 1440p, or 2160p, the AMD Radeon RX Vega 64 delivers high-end performance. We also booted up 3DMark and subjected the graphics card to various benchmarks at the out-of-the-box clock speeds, in which it attained the following scores: The AMD Radeon RX Vega 64 is truly a GPU for the high-performance gamer and will be able to handle any title you boot up at any resolution required. Using the Adrenalin drivers, you can push this performance even further by overclocking the chip and increasing its power limit. Thanks to its next-generation hardware and the constant optimisations being made to its gaming performance, you can expect the Radeon RX Vega 64 to be future-proof for a long time to come. This article was published in partnership with AMD.