After a week of noise, the attackers who claim to have breached Liberty’s computer network have gone quiet – and the company is playing its cards close to its chest. Liberty sent out a notice on the evening of 16 June 2018 to inform clients that hackers had accessed the company’s systems and “requested compensation.” The attackers reportedly demanded millions from Liberty, after stating they had obtained sensitive data about top clients. Liberty later confirmed that an email server had been compromised and the attackers were extorting it under threat of releasing potentially sensitive data. David Munro, the CEO of Liberty Holdings, said the breach consisted mainly of recent emails and was limited to the company’s operations in South Africa. No customers had reported suffering a financial loss as a result of the attack, he added. Shortly after Liberty held a press conference on the attack, a statement purporting to be from the attackers appeared on Pastebin. It claimed they had 40TB of data, which included customer data, finance data, backups of email inboxes, and “more interesting data.” They also claimed that Liberty’s ability to state that none of its clients had suffered a financial loss was only due to their mercy. Since then, however, there has been no further communication from the attackers, nor new information from Liberty. While it appears they did not make good on their threat to release the sensitive data, it raises questions about whether this is due to law enforcement being on their trail, or if they are quietly selling the data instead. Liberty told MyBroadband that it will update all relevant stakeholders on the outcome of its investigation into the hack at the appropriate time. “Liberty can confirm that the matter of the recent illegal and unauthorised access to its IT infrastructure by an external party is still subject to a criminal investigation and we are working with the relevant authorities,” said the company. “We can further confirm that there are no reports of any customer who has suffered any financial loss as a result of this incident.” “Liberty remains in full control of its IT environment following significant steps to further secure our systems.”