At the start of the year, many Gautrain commuters discovered their Gautrain Gold Cards no longer worked. Upon enquiring about the issue, a Gautrain spokesperson said Gold Cards expire after five years – and the first batch reached that point at the end of 2017. “Like other smart cards, Gautrain cards are prone to wear and tear after a period of use, and therefore have a validity end date,” said the spokesperson. Initially, users whose cards had expired were told to get a refund for the prepaid credit which remained on their cards by contacting the Gautrain call centre. On 1 February 2018, Gautrain launched a new website and smartphone app which makes the refund claims process considerably easier. To apply for a refund, you must create an account to link your cards. Once you have registered for an account through the Gautrain website, you are presented with an empty account management interface.  From the account management screen, you can click the “Add new card” button under the transit cards section. This will require you to enter the first and last group of digits on your Gautrain Gold Card, and give it a name.  After adding a card, you must navigate to the claim management interface using the menu on the top-right of the screen. This will bring up the empty claims screen, shown below.   From the claim management interface you may click “Submit new claim” – which will bring up the form you must complete to get a refund. Select the transit card you would like to claim for, and select the “Gautrain card expired” option in the “Description” drop-down menu. When you have submitted your claim, it will show up on the claims management screen.   Once you have submitted your claim, you will receive an email from Gautrain confirming that it has been received. You will also receive an email when the claim has been approved. We submitted two claims on the morning of Friday, 6 June, and received confirmation that Gautrain has sent instruction to its bank to pay the refund by Monday morning.