An attack method called aLTEr was recently discovered by security researchers. The attack takes advantage of vulnerabilities in the LTE standard, directing users to fraudulent websites. It can also be used to hijack a user’s browsing session and prey on the websites visited over an LTE connection. This attack makes use of an active exploit abusing the data link layer of LTE connectivity, posing as the victim’s mobile device to the closest cell tower, while simultaneously fooling the victim’s device into believing that it is communicating with the cell tower. The attacker then modifies information in DNS packets, which direct traffic to website addresses, allowing hackers to steer legitimate requests to malicious websites where data such as usernames and passwords can be swiped. The dangers of these attacks are similar to malware attacks, as they may leak sensitive user information and expose businesses to major liabilities and financial losses. The real problem with these attacks, however, is that they can’t be patched. The proposed ways to prevent becoming a victim to DNS threats include using DNS Security, a feature available in DrayTek’s robust range of routers. According to DrayTek, DNS Security is based on Domain Name System Security Extensions (DNSSEC), which is a set of rules created to mitigate the security design limitations in DNS systems by using digital signatures. These digital signature provide DNS data integrity and origin authentication to DNS clients. Having DNSSEC enabled on DrayTek routers means that before asking for the address of a domain name, the router will perform iterative queries for ‘DNSKEY’ and ‘RRsig’ to validate the information provided by each DNS server to ensure the DNS response isn’t fake. This ensures that users are protected and do not fall victim to the attack – which could cost them dearly if their private credentials and information are captured by attackers. For more information about DrayTek networking, contact SD Group on 0213001330, mail sales@sdgroup.co.za or visit www.sdgroup.co.za. This article was published in partnership with DrayTek.