One of Axiz’s key takeaways from Microsoft Inspire 2018, which recently took place in Las Vegas, is “it’s all about the net new customer adds”. “This message was one of the key statements I took away with me from Inspire 2018, after a week at the annual conference held by Microsoft Corporation for its global partner community in Las Vegas, held from 16 to 20 July 2018,” said Traci Maynard, Axiz Microsoft Executive. According to Maynard, cloud is here – and it’s clear that Microsoft is winning the cloud war. The tech giant is, according to Forbes, the world’s leading enterprise-cloud provider, based on the company’s reported 58% commercial-cloud revenue jump – reaching $6 billion. The Corenote delivered by Gavriella Shuster, Corporate Vice President for One Commercial Partner, was focused, in part, around the global partner success of net end customer adds. This talks to the number of new end customer additions that a partner has engaged, interacted, and transacted with using their cloud (CSP) licensing model. Microsoft’s Cloud Solution Provider (CSP) programme forms the foundation of cloud licensing to enable true digital transformation for end customers and partners alike.  According to Maynard, a highlight for her was finding out that an African-based partner in Morocco showed 162% growth in customer wins in FY18. To help their partners in South Africa show the same levels of growth, Axiz is pleased to announce the launch of a Microsoft CSP Partner incentive – which will kick off from 1 August 2018. This incentive rewards all Axiz registered partners for simply selling seats and creating new tenants. For achieving this, the partners will be eligible to earn a percentage back for their company. Campaign terms and conditions apply. The next steps are easy: Customer can also contact the Microsoft CSP team via email. To hear what partners have to say about Axiz and the Microsoft team, watch the short video below. Axiz (Pty) Ltd is part of the Alviva Holdings Group and has been a trusted IT channel aggregator for more than 30 years in Southern Africa. <span data-mce-type="bookmark" style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;" class="mce_SELRES_start">﻿</span> This article was published in partnership with Axiz.