With a legacy built on a ‘Customer First’ approach that spans over one hundred years, Brother’s business printers and Multi-Function Centres (MFCs) have won the PCMag Readers’ Choice Award for an unprecedented 9 years in a row, as well as the PCMag Business Choice Award for the last 5 years. And now, the same dedication to uncompromising innovation and reliability is reflected in its latest range of Inkjet Refill Tank System MFC for high print volume home offices and small businesses. “Today’s small business and home office owners face a difficult decision when choosing a MFC to suit their needs, often having to compromise between cost-efficiency, print quality, and features.” says Dale de Villiers, Marketing Manager at Brother South Africa. “Brother’s latest Inktank range aim to strike the perfect balance for this growing group of customers by delivering outstanding print volumes, professional quality prints, and expanded capabilities – all in one compact and affordable package.” This latest series features three new models which include the DCP-T510W (print, copy, scan with Wi-Fi), DCP-T710W (print, copy, scan with Wi-Fi and ADF), and the MFC-T910DW (duplex print (only), copy, scan and fax with ADF, Ethernet and Wi-Fi). Introducing Brother’s latest Inkjet Multi-Function Centre Series: All prices are indicative and inclusive of VAT and include a 3-year carry-in warranty. These products can be purchased through Brother International South Africa’s authorised resellers, takealot.com and Computer Mania from August 2018.       Brother is a leader in the development and manufacturing of technologies in the printing, communication and digital imaging industries for homes, SMEs and corporates who demand solutions that empower businesses and individuals to communicate ideas in every possible way. A trusted brand worldwide that believes in the “Customer First” approach in all aspect of their business, Brother has continuously met the varied needs of their customers through their comprehensive range of quality printing solutions. Brother International South Africa (Pty) Ltd is the regional sales office for South Africa and markets a range of products manufactured by its parent company, Brother Industries, Ltd. of Nagoya, Japan.  Established in 1970, Brother International South Africa (Pty) Ltd manages an extensive network of distributors in both domestic and Sub Saharan markets. Brother’s printing business is committed to the advancement of technologies and “work style innovation” and constantly strives to pioneer new technologies and improve product quality. The different types of technology Brother offers are convenient to use and helps streamline workflow and efficiency in corporate, SME and home environments. For more information about Brother, visit http://www.brother.co.za. Brother always takes responsibility, acts respectfully and tries to make a positive difference. Brother Earth is Brother’s attitude and commitment to play a part in building a society with sustainable development. Help the environment now by giving a click at http://www.brotherearth.com. Brother will contribute to a variety of global environmental protection activities on your behalf. The number of clicks each project receives will determine proportionately how the funds will be allocated. This article was published in partnership with Brother.