Gallagher Convention Centre is offering great conference specials for the month of July. Conveniently located in Midrand, between Johannesburg and Pretoria, Gallagher is home to some of Africa’s largest and most-attended exhibitions, including the annual MyBroadband Conference and MyBroadband Cloud, Hosting, and Security Conference, hosting about 30 exhibitions and 350 events annually. The property offers 27 venues and 8,000 parking bays for the convenience of visitors. Loading into the Gallagher venues is also made easy by single level load-in through the drive-in loading bays.  Gallagher’s multi-purpose venues cater to a variety of events, such as conferences, dinners, luncheons, cocktails, exhibitions, and private events, and include: The boardrooms can accommodate between 2 and 60 guests for a meeting or an intimate luncheon. All the boardrooms are serviced by friendly butlers, and boardroom 5 is a dedicated video conferencing facility. Gallagher’s meeting rooms are also well-suited to training sessions, luncheons, banquets, and small conferences, and can accommodate from 2 to 60 guests. The Lotus Suite is situated in a completely private corner of the gardens at Gallagher Convention Centre, and is perfect for smaller corporate or private functions. It caters for up to 150 guests, and includes an enclosed foyer, two spacious rooms, a cocktail bar, and a garden terrace. Next to the Lotus Suite, the Wine Cellar is ideal for small intimate celebrations, corporate luncheons, private dinners, or business meetings for up to 8 guests. Free Wi-Fi is available in dedicated areas, and the resident team of chefs can cater for any dietary requirements upon request  Gallagher has been an industry leader for 25 years and is committed to service excellence. The professional and experienced team – with a collective industry experience of over 229 years – and the network of pre-qualified suppliers are dedicated to meeting the requirements of clients. To best accommodate organisers, Gallagher offers a single-call-solution where organisers can secure pre-qualified suppliers without having to look any further. The qualified staff forming the Gallagher Convention Centre team work to ensure that the requirements of the organisers are met and that their expectations are exceeded.  In July, Gallagher is offering several discounted inclusive packages, which are outlined below. The Special Training DDP Package is available for R370 per person (ex VAT), which includes: A Special DDP Package for R435 per person (ex VAT) is also available, which includes: Gallagher is also offering a Special Half-Day DDP with a meal for R390 per person (ex VAT), which includes: These special offers are valid until 31 July 2018. Gallagher Convention Centre offers the special training packages, formulated to suit your budget, until 31 March 2019. Visit the Gallagher website for more information. This article was published in partnership with Gallagher Convention Centre.