Following its continued success in South Africa, Huawei is set to finalise the construction of its first dedicated warehouse for Africa. The warehouse will be located in Johannesburg and is a major milestone in the company’s long-term plan for South Africa. Huawei said it has seen rapid, continued growth in the country, with its smartphone market share now reaching almost 10%. While its flagship smartphones compete squarely against other big names in the local market, it is the mid-range segment where Huawei pushes large volumes of devices. Thanks to the attractive pricing and specifications of devices like the Huawei P20 Lite, the demand for Huawei smartphones has climbed steadily in recent years. Huawei said the completed construction of a warehouse will allow for improved customer satisfaction and will help to meet the ever-increasing demand for Huawei devices in South Africa. Huawei told MyBroadband it currently ships smartphones and other devices to customers directly from its warehouses in China. This process can take weeks and in some cases can lead to serious local stock shortages. “Currently, it takes Huawei around three weeks to deliver our stock from China to South African retail stores,” said Likun Zhao, Vice President of Huawei Consumer Business Group Southern Africa. “With the construction of the new warehouse, delivering the stock from our local warehouse to retail stores will take only three days.” “This means that the stores will not run out of stock of Huawei phones, and consumers won’t have to wait weeks for new devices.” Customer satisfaction could also improve greatly as local buyers will no longer need to wait for international stock. “Huawei SA will now have more flexibility in determining our stock strategy. This new warehouse will mean that the local launches of our flagship devices will occur much closer to the global launch date,” said Zhao. “At the same time, we can reduce the pressure on our partners’ stock and increase their cash flow.” Huawei’s new warehouse will be located in the free trade zone of OR Tambo International Airport, and the company said it is currently finalising construction specifics. Zhao concluded by stating that they have focused on delivering improved customer service and support for South Africans, and building a dedicated local warehouse should improve its ability to deliver on this.