In May 2016, Standard Bank became the victim of a sophisticated fraud incident, where around R300 million was stolen through credit card crime. Standard Bank spokesperson Ross Linstrom said at the time that the incident involved the withdrawal of cash using a small number of fictitious cards at various ATMs in Japan. To date, the bank has not provided specifics on how the credit card details were leaked, which sparked speculation. Professor Basie Von Solms, Director of the Centre for Cyber Security at the University of Johannesburg, said the theft of thousands of Standard Bank credit card details may have been an inside job. Von Solms said a Standard Bank employee with access to the credit card information of clients could have sold it to a criminal syndicate. MyBroadband contacted Standard Bank to find out what the latest findings of their investigation were, but Linstrom said the external investigation is still ongoing. He said the investigation is being facilitated by various local and international authorities, including Interpol. “The investigation has, however, concluded that there was no evidence of internal leaks or collusion,” said Linstrom. He added that further information would have to be supplied by the various authorities, as Standard Bank would not like to compromise the investigation process. “Standard Bank has made and continues to invest heavily in ensuring that our customers have a safe and secure environment to transact,” said Linstrom. The Japanese news publication Mianichi reported that well over one billion yen was stolen from 1,400 ATMs in convenience stores in Japan in the space of a few hours on 15 May 2016. The ATM transaction data “suggests that information from 1,600 credit cards issued by a South African bank was used”. The Yomiuri Shimbun reported that “each transaction involved the removal of ¥100,000, the maximum withdrawal limit set for ATMs, and there were more than 14,000 transactions in the case”. “Police suspect that a group of more than 100 people extracted the money from the ATMs, which were located in Tokyo and 16 prefectures,” stated the report. 