The modern Internet is packed with applications that allow users to communicate with each other, share media, and access information almost instantly. People rely on the Internet for business, entertainment, social interaction, research, navigation, and more. The widespread adoption of Internet-based platforms is made possible due to the ubiquity of personal computing devices, from desktops and laptops to Smart TVs and smartphones. However, using these platforms comes at a cost – requiring us to surrender personal data and direct control of our assets to companies in exchange for use of their systems. A growing group of developers, engineers, and academics have begun looking at solutions to the “problem” of centralisation across the Internet, using ideas from the pre-Internet era to build networks which promote shared control by their users. Many developers building on distributed networks like Ethereum aim to revolutionise the Internet by putting power back into the hands of its users, as envisioned by many prominent figures involved in the development of the web. Status Technical Evangelist Andy Tudhope is one of the people advocating for a decentralised Internet, and is involved with the development of the Status blockchain-based application. Status is a decentralised messaging app which runs a light node on a user’s smartphone, allowing them to communicate with other users, interact with decentralised applications, and send and receive cryptocurrency without any centralised servers. Tudhope told MyBroadband that the initial vision for the widespread use of computers and the Internet was very different to what we see today.  “Some of the most prominent engineers working on the computer early on (circa 1960 or so) like Doug Engelbart, Alan Kay, and others (at Xerox PARC in particular) had a very different conception of what computers might actually represent,” said Tudhope. “To these early visionaries, computers were not solipsistic machines meant only to manipulate private virtual worlds – they were tools for mass collaboration on scales never before imagined in the pursuit of a more complete collective knowledge.” Computers were envisioned as a way to empower users to share information and become collectively more knowledgable and powerful, but have instead become tools to access platforms owned by centralised parties who treat users as products, he added. Tudhope decries the use of the Internet as a means of surveillance, stating that it strays far from the original vision behind its creation. “The same goes for Sir Tim Berners-Lee and the Internet,” he said. “His initial conception of what it was and what it ought to enable is quite radically different from the Internet we all use today which – in some conceptions – is just a glorified mass surveillance machine.” Tudhope said that neither PCs or the Internet have been implemented to their full potential, and instead function as tools for centralised organisations. “Neither of these two example cases were able to realise fully their dreams, primarily because the value their inventions created was captured either by uses of the tools they built (the mouse, the GUI, laser printers) or by applications built on top of the protocols they created (Google, Facebook, Amazon, etc.),” he said. Decentralised networks like Ethereum and Bitcoin aim to change this system, bringing control back to users and allowing them to interact on a global platform without fear of censorship or abuse, said Tudhope. “With networks like Ethereum, the value that is created is denominated in exactly the token used to run and secure that network, closing neatly a powerful and virtuous feedback loop.” “Moreover, because we now have programmable money, we can build systems with very carefully-designed incentives that do not rely on any human administrator. That is, we can program crowds using a global computer whose state is consensually agreed upon by peers all over the world,” he said. Tudhope argues that the implementation of a decentralised global computing platform is a lot closer to the vision of early computer pioneers than the Internet we know today. “This ultimately means we can incentivise the sort of collaboration envisioned by Engelbart, and promote the kinds of creativity imagined by Berners-Lee.”