South African smartphone company Mobicel recently unveiled the latest addition to their smartphone range – the Mobicel Astro. The entry-level device officially launched in the market on 15 June 2018 and is powered by the Spreadtrum 28nm WCDMA platform, with a 1.3 GHz quad-core 32-bit ARM architecture-based processor. The device includes 512MB of RAM and 4GB of storage, features a 4-inch display, a software-upgradable front and rear camera, and a 1,400mAh battery. What’s notable about this device is that it runs the latest Android 8.1 Oreo (Go edition) operating system, and is aimed at customers who are looking for a modern, but entry-level device. Android 8.1 Oreo (Go edition) is an optimized version of Android 8.1 Oreo designed to run on entry-level smartphones so they work faster and can store more media and apps. This means that users looking for a straightforward smartphone with a large screen that is very affordable can still take advantage of the latest apps and services from Google. The operating system comes with fewer pre-installed and much lighter apps, giving smartphones like the Mobicel Astro increased out-of-the-box storage capacity. As with the regular version of Oreo, Android 8.1 Oreo (Go edition) also works faster – as it opens apps 15% faster than previous versions of Android. Thanks to Google’s Data Saver feature, which manages data more effectively and is enabled on the new system, owners of the Mobicel Astro may also consume less mobile data – making it even more affordable. Android Oreo (Go edition) devices also have access to an optimised version of the Google Play​ Store, which highlights apps that are better suited for low-storage devices, so users can easily find apps that will work best on the device they’re using. Another benefit is that Google Assistant is available on a smartphone with 1GB or less of RAM. Users with lower-end hardware now also have the same key security features found in Android Oreo. This includes Google Play Protect, built-in mobile security for 24/7 app and data security. “Android, as a platform, has been developed to provide the power of computing to everyone. With ​Android Oreo (Go edition), the experience promises to offer even better use of data and storage space without compromising on device performance and security for a broad range of devices. We would like to thank Mobicel for their efforts to launch one of the first Android Oreo (Go edition) smartphones in South Africa,” said Mahir Sahin, Director, Africa Android Partnerships, Google​. All Mobicel devices are manufactured in China, but are developed and sold in South Africa, and can be purchased via the Mobicel website or from any ​Mobicel stockist​. For more information, visit the ​Mobicel website​. The specifications of the Mobicel Astro are detailed in the table below.  Android and Google Play are trademarks of Google LLC. This article was published in partnership with Mobicel.