In our digital age, it has become crucial for organisations across the globe to transform digitally. According to i-Scoop, this means companies need to accelerate the transformation of their business activities, processes, competencies, and models by evolving with and fully leveraging the changes and opportunities of digital technologies. To do this, it is critical for organisations to source experts in every field who can help them execute digital strategies, run the business effectively, and consequently provide outstanding customer service. As more organisations embark on their journey to transform digitally, the demand for talented project managers – who can oversee projects and programs and complete tasks, while keeping on budget – is escalating. According to GetSmarter, a project manager in a digital age plays a key role in ensuring that the project continues as smoothly as possible by keeping track of non-physical tasks and meeting customer demands. GetSmarter, a wholly-owned subsidiary of 2U, Inc., offers an online education platform for working professionals, by partnering with the world’s leading universities to select, design, and deliver premium online short courses with a data-driven focus on learning. The platform offers online short courses in project management, presented by faculty and industry experts from the the University of Cape Town (UCT), that will equip any working professional to upskill their ability to oversee projects and provide clients with exactly what they want, expediently. Project Management online short courses available from GetSmarter are the Project Management Foundation online short course (PM) and the Advanced Project Management online short course (APM) – which are both Project Management Institute (PMI) accredited. Mastering project management is an essential workplace skill guaranteed to boost the impact those with the proficiency may have on any organisation, but as with mastering or achieving anything in life to become an expert you must start with the basics. With this online short course from UCT, professionals will get foundational training in project management to help them become an office expert when leading a projectised approach. The transferable skills the course offers will enable professionals to help build and lead project teams, handle time and budget constraints, and communicate solutions to stakeholders in any industry. Individuals enrolled in the programme will tackle a new module each week, giving them maximum flexibility to work in their free time. The online short course is designed with a personalised and supported framework, which also allows students to study in their own time, guided by industry experts and a dedicated support team. This project management online short course will equip professionals with the ability to: As organisations move to a projectised approach to work, the demand for professionals with advanced project management qualifications and skills rises. According to GetSmarter, 80% of high-performing projects are being led by certified project managers – making it increasingly apparent that the right project management skills will result in success. The Advanced Project Management (APM) online short course from UCT allows professionals to move beyond the basics and become an expert project manager, creating project plans that speak to specific organisational needs. With an APM certificate professionals will become invaluable to any employer, as they are equipped to address process problems and provide the solutions for optimal project performance. With a personalised and supported framework, professionals get to study in their own time, guided by industry experts and a dedicated support team. On completion of this course, professionals will earn a certificate from a top-tier university as proof of their new competencies and use it to set themselves apart to get recognised in the job market. This Advanced Project Management online short course will equip professionals with the ability to: GetSmarter offers a range of certified online short courses – designed for busy, working professionals – from the world’s most prestigious universities, including, Oxford, Harvard, MIT, and Cambridge. To take the next step to becoming an expert project manager, visit the GetSmarter website. This article was published in partnership with GetSmarter.