The all-new Nissan Navara is the latest in a long line of Nissan bakkies – combining comfort and design with rugged strength, power and performance to take on any challenge. To prove this, Nissan has addressed the toughest questions posed on Twitter with a campaign called Navara Rugged Replies, proving the vehicle’s strength, capability, and affordability.  The Navara has been designed from the ground up to work harder for longer, with a 1-ton loading capacity and 3.5-ton braked towing capacity. It also includes a 5-link coil rear suspension system, a 2.3-litre 140kW twin-turbo diesel engine with 450Nm of torque, and an optional 7-speed automatic transmission – all working together for better handling and a more efficient, responsive drive. The load box of the Nissan Navara stretches to a length of 1,503mm and 1,560mm in width, and its lighter tailgate makes loading and unloading easier. Additionally, Nissan’s Utili-Track tie down system offers moveable cleats that can be locked anywhere in special tracks, ensuring cargo of any shape or size can be easily secured.  The Navara has many features designed to handle rough terrain with ease, including an adaptable four-wheel drive system that gives drivers more traction and control in challenging conditions. Its 4WD system is electronically controlled via a rotary switch on the dash, and the system switches between 2WD and high-range 4WD with the twist of a dial, while maintaining speeds of up to 100km/h. Low-range can also be selected for mud, sandy, or difficult terrain. The Navara also offers drivers 4-wheel Active Brake Limited Slip (ABLS), which individually controls each of the four wheels – not just on the two primary driven wheels – to optimise traction in challenging conditions, similar to the benefits that a limited slip differential provides. On an incline, the Navara’s Hill Start Assist prevents the vehicle from rolling backwards when accelerating from a stop, and Hill Descent Control helps the vehicle maintain a steady speed on steep descents. Rear differential locking is also available at the push of a button, delivering equal power to both rear wheels to boost traction.  To improve the affordability of the Navara, Nissan has put great pricing options together, which are displayed below. For more information about the Nissan Navara, click here. This article was published in partnership with Nissan.