Techtraders continues to deliver state-of-the-art peripherals and PC components to South African gamers. Cougar Gaming products are now available for purchase at Computer Mania stores. “To celebrate the successful nationwide launch we will be joining Computer Mania at the Electronic & Gaming Expo in Cape Town,” states Techtraders. “The expo is a great way to showcase our affordable and quality Cougar Gaming products to the public.” The Electronic & Gaming Expo takes place at the Cape Town International Convention Centre from the 27th to 29th of July 2018. Attendees will be able to engage in a variety of activities, with exhibitors and events to suit your geek culture and tech preferences. Computer Mania is one of the headline sponsors for the Electronic & Gaming Expo this year. Alongside Cougar Gaming they will host plenty of event-specific specials and deals. Computer Mania, ACGL, and the ZA Gaming Alliance Facebook group have also partnered to host a variety of mini-tournaments over the course of the event. The ZA Gaming Alliance is a 17,000 strong active community of South African gamers. To connect with them they have launched a brand new app, which will get updates on specials and activities throughout the weekend.  “Cougar Gaming peripherals will be provided for attendees to use over the weekend at the ZA Gaming Alliance PC stage. It’s a great opportunity to try out some of our most iconic gear before you buy it,” adds Techtraders. “Attendees will get to test a range of our peripherals and our signature Chairs in pickup mini-tournaments for Dota 2, League of Legends, CS:GO, and more.” Having had the opportunity to test the Cougar Gaming peripherals, you’ll then be able to head over to the Computer Mania stall to actually buy those products as well. Expect crazy deals on Cougar Gaming favourites like the Phontum Headset, the Deathfire EX Combo, the Surpassion Mouse, the Bunker S Headset Stand, and many more. Keep your eyes peeled for Kyle “Pacman10154” Swart, one of Cougar Gaming’s local South African streamers, as he will be at the event to meet and greet with fans.  If you’re a gamer, geek, or tech aficionado then make sure you join us at the Electronic & Gaming Expo at the Cape Town International Convention Centre! Expo Information: This article was published in partnership with Techtraders.