In 2016, Nissan introduced Nissan Intelligent Mobility (NIM) in an effort to address the challenges of climate change, traffic congestion, road fatalities, and increasing air pollution – making transportation safer, smarter, and more enjoyable. Guided by the vision of mobility for all and the goal of achieving zero emissions and zero fatalities on the roads, Nissan improved on these features every year. This enabled customers to connect to the world around them in a new and intelligent way when driving. The advanced safety technology suite allows the driver to connect with the vehicle by changing it from being an ordinary car to the driver’s partner, boosting confidence and adding to the excitement of being on the road. Comprising a variety of advanced technology features, the system is designed to keep drivers and passengers safe and provide them with a smooth, stress-free driving experience through automated reactions to exterior factors and conditions. The pillars of Nissan Intelligent Mobility are detailed below. An Intelligent Blind Spot Warning makes sure the side lanes are clear when merging or changing lanes, and will nudge the car back if there is a vehicle in the blind spot area.  The Intelligent Distance Control prevents accidental tailgating and ensures motorists are always following at a safe distance by monitoring the flow of traffic.  Intelligent Lane Intervention taps the brakes to help gently guide the driver back if it detects the vehicle is unintentionally out of the lane for too long.  Nissan’s Intelligent Emergency Braking allows the vehicle to monitor two cars ahead and alerts the driver to slow down – often before it’s even possible to see what’s stopping traffic.  The other features that make up NIM, include an Intelligent Around View Monitor, which provides a bird’s-eye view of the vehicle so motorists know what’s happening at all angles. It also includes Intelligent Back-up Intervention when reversing, which automatically applies the brakes if another vehicle is approaching, and Intelligent Forward Collision to alert the driver if it determines a collision is possible with the vehicle directly in front of it. To test-drive a NIM-enabled vehicle and experience the future of driving, visit the Nissan website. This article was published in partnership with Nissan.