RS Components (RS) announced the availability of the latest 3D printer from Ultimaker. The Ultimaker S5 targets the professional end of the market across a number of applications and meets engineering requirements from the creation of prototypes to full end-use industrial-grade components and parts. Headline features of the Ultimaker S5 include continuous operation, large build volume, advanced connectivity, dual extrusion, an open filament system and the ability to print with a wide range of materials, including third-party filaments. The Ultimaker S5 brings together the Ultimaker 360-degree holistic approach with the integration of hardware, software and materials. This results in an easy-to-use and highly reliable manufacturing solution with full settings alignment to meet the needs of engineers, designers, or specialists working in many different fields from architecture to medical, as well as use in universities and other academic institutions. Offering low total cost of ownership, and designed for use by multiple users, the printer employs silent stepper drivers, making it ideal for use in an office or studio environment. A further key element is the printer’s open and flexible platform, which enables users to align the machine with their existing processes to create a highly efficient workflow. Major features include the printer’s build volume of 330 x 240 x 300mm, which makes it suitable for printing larger objects, and the machine’s active multi-point bed-levelling system. This monitors the flow of material and ensures a perfect first layer by compensating for variations in build-plate topography and then automatically correcting errors during the printing process to deliver high-quality parts. The printer has also been designed to use a very wide range of materials from PLA and Tough PLA to advanced plastics such as Nylon, PC and even composite materials. Support for other widely available materials includes ABS, CPE, CPE+, TPU 95A, PP, PVA and Breakaway. However, Ultimaker’s extensive knowhow of materials, combined with the use of its world-leading Cura 3D printing software, means that almost any industrial filament can work with the printer. The S5 also offers a high build-plate temperature of up to 140°C, which is required by materials such as PC. However, in addition to the printer’s standard glass build plate, a more resistant build plate made from aluminium will also be available to customers. This makes the machine suitable for the building of very large objects made from engineering materials such as ABS or PC. The Ultimaker S5 is available now from RS and complements the distributor’s extensive range of 3D printers for rapid-prototyping and part manufacturing. For more information on 3D printing please go to bit.ly/3DPrintingRS.  This article was published in partnership with RS Components.