Having the right smartphone is important in dominating the mobile gaming scene, which has increased in popularity, surpassing global revenue earned by Hollywood in 2017. Last year, mobile gaming topped Hollywood earnings by raking in around $50 billion across the world, according to Statista, hence the global mobile gaming community is growing rapidly. Avid mobile gamers will know that with the right display size, efficiency of their smartphone and battery life, gives them the power to become the next champion. Equally as important are detailed graphics, processing power and audio quality for a more immersive gaming experience. Built with the player in mind, the HUAWEI Y7 2018 smartphone makes for a powerful tool in a mobile gamer’s arsenal. Not only does the smartphone offer a riveting gaming experience through an immersive FullView display and powerful battery life – the HUAWEI Y7 2018 offers users a host of premium smartphone features like Face Unlock and powerful front-facing and rear cameras. Through the Face Unlock feature, users can quickly return to a game after pausing with just a glance of the screen. Face Unlock also allows the user to keep their fingers focused on a game without the need of drawing patterns or entering pin codes. Boasting up to 20 days of standby time, the HUAWEI Y7 2018 offers enough stamina for 13 hours of video playback and up to a massive 58 hours of music play or gaming. The HUAWEI Y7 2018 is packed with a 3000mAh battery to power the performance of the device through endless storylines, chapters, stages and levels. Bigger is always better and the HUAWEI Y7 2018 proves this with its dynamic 5.99 inch HD+ display. With a larger display, games and graphics included in them appear more vivid and immersive. Tap, scroll and swipe your way to victory as the smartphone’s high screen-to-body ratio allows the user to get lost in any mobile game, with more room for controls. Just achieved a gaming milestone? Quickly capture the moment with the HUAWEI Y7 2018’s three-finger shot. The feature allows the user to capture fleeting moments almost instantaneously. To offer players the smoothest gaming experience, the HUAWEI Y7 2018 is designed with the Snapdragon 430 chipset, 3 GB RAM, 32 GB onboard memory and the Android-based EMUI 8.0 for an overall seamless smartphone experience. The HUAWEI Y7 2018’s dynamic and detailed speaker system gives its user rich sound feedback for a powerful audio experience. However, HUAWEI Y7 2018 is more than just a gamer’s best friend. The device is versatile and able to carry out numerous tasks at once. Need to send a text but can’t miss a second of a gripping series on your smartphone? The HUAWEI Y7 2018’s got you covered. The Spilt-screen functionality allows the device to run two supporting apps side-by-side. With all its capabilities, the HUAWEI Y7 2018 makes for a powerful smartphone, but it offers peace of mind for its durability too. The HUAWEI Y7 2018 has passed the exhaustive tests to ensure reliable quality. The device has passed stringent quality tests with 10 000 USB plug-in tests, temperature tests between -40c and 70c and 800 000 screen touches. All its features and functionality make the HUAWEI Y7 2018 a logical choice for mobile gamers looking for the edge on their competition. Coupled with an affordable price tag the HUAWEI Y7 2018 is the only weapon needed in a player’s inventory. This article was published in partnership with Huawei.