Industry sources have informed MyBroadband that Vodacom remains interested in buying a stake in Vumatel, but it may not be simple to achieve. Vodacom was previously in discussions to buy Vumatel, but according to industry sources it could not conclude a deal with the company. In June 2018, CIVH announced that it bought 34.9% of Vumatel, with plans to acquire the remaining 65.1% – subject to funding and regulatory approvals. CIVH is owned by a group of investors – Remgro, New GX Capital Holdings, Chlanich, Community Investment Holdings (CIH), and Consolidated Capital Investments. While Vodacom remains interested in Vumatel, CIVH non-executive chairman Pieter Uys told MyBroadband their share in the fibre company is not for sale. Uys said they are typically long-term investors in companies, and they have trust that Vumatel is a strong company with a lot of potential. He said CIVH has an exclusive agreement to purchase the remaining shares in Vumatel by the end of August 2018. The percentage of Vumatel it will buy will depend on funding and regulatory approvals, added Uys. Uys also said they have not been contacted by anyone who is interested in their stake in Vumatel. Vodacom CEO Shameel Joosub recently said the company wants to become a bigger player in the fibre-to-the-home market. As part of this strategy, Vodacom plans to increase its investment in the fixed-line arena – which includes fibre infrastructure. In an interview with MyBroadband, Joosub declined to comment on whether it is looking at acquiring a stake in Vumatel. Joosub said he can’t comment on speculation, but stated that Vodacom is looking at ways to grow its fibre network. Vodacom spokesperson Andile April told MyBroadband that Vodacom is considering a variety of options to expand its FTTH exposure in the country. “Naturally, growth through acquisition is one of these possibilities,” said April. April declined to comment on whether Vodacom had identified fibre companies it may be interested in acquiring.