Rain Mobile throttles data download speeds during peak hours, in an effort to provide the best service possible to the majority of its subscribers. While this is not unheard of in the broadband industry, it was a frustration for Rain Mobile customers who are currently enjoying their “unlimited data days” data usage. Tests by MyBroadband found that from 18:00 to 23:00 every day, download speeds dropped from around 30Mbps to under 3Mbps during the peak period. We also noticed that download speeds in BitTorrent clients dropped significantly at 18:00 when downloads were running – going from 2MB/s to 3MB/s (16Mbps to 24Mbps) to under 150KB/s. Rain told MyBroadband at the time that the speed reductions were a result of its prioritisation of real-time traffic – such as video streaming, voice, and web browsing – over non-real-time traffic. “User experience is much more impacted by having real-time traffic slow down than non-real-time traffic, as having a movie stutter while someone is streaming is a much worse experience than waiting a little while longer for a large download,” said Rain. “We have no desire or motivation to slow down any user unless necessary.” To test Rain’s statement that is was prioritising real-time traffic – such as video streaming – over non-real-time traffic, we set up a data usage test. We placed a Rain Mobile SIM, with its unlimited data days still active, in a Huawei 618 router and connected it to a Windows 10 PC via an Ethernet cable. Two ultra-long YouTube videos were then set to run, and BitMeter OS was installed to monitor bandwidth usage on the PC. Before the videos were set to play, speeds tests were conducted to ensure the router was receiving good speeds. Our Rain Mobile set-up achieved speeds of 20Mbps down and 8Mbps up during the initial speed tests – showing good signal strength. The YouTube videos were then left to play over two sets of days: 6-7 July 2018, and 9-10 July 2018. The results we saw were very similar to what was observed in our previous tests. The amount of data consumed by the YouTube videos on our test rig sat at the 4.5GB-per-hour mark consistently outside of Rain’s peak hours. Between 18:00 and 23:00, however, the amount of data consumed by the YouTube videos dropped drastically – indicating that despite being real-time traffic, it was being throttled. The graphics below show the data consumption trends of the YouTube videos over the two test periods, and the throttling of the traffic during the peak hours. The tables below the graphs contain the tracked data usage figures, measured on an hourly basis, along with the average download speeds – in MB-per-second. The first test was conducted on 6 and 7 July 2018, stating at 11:00 on 6 July. The results show that data consumed by the YouTube videos dropped drastically between 18:00 and 23:00.  The second test was conducted on 9 and 10 July 2018, starting at 11:00 on 9 July. As with the previous test, the rate at which the YouTube videos could consume data dropped substantially between 18:00 and 23:00. 