Huawei said it has invested heavily in its customer service for South African smartphone owners, improving its local product centres and service partner offerings. The company said its after-sales support and product quality will be a key factor in improving its market position and subsequently taking on Apple and Samsung in the country. Huawei has seen massive growth in South Africa recently, and the launch of its P20 and P20 Pro flagship devices has boosted it to new heights. The recent construction of a dedicated warehouse in South Africa also allows Huawei to drastically improve product shipping times, giving it an edge over international competitors. South Africa has become a crucial market for Huawei in both the African region and globally, with local consumers becoming more aware of the brand’s offerings. The company has seen great interest in its mid-range devices, which are more affordable than its flagship smartphones. Huawei South Africa Marketing Director Akhram Mohamed recently said the Huawei P20 Lite could be the best-selling smartphone in the country, thanks to the size of the mid-range market and the device’s popularity in the postpaid segment. Huawei said it is focused on delivering high levels of customer satisfaction with both product quality and support services. “Huawei sees the Net Promoter Score as the most import contributor to consumer satisfaction,” said Likun Zhao, Vice President of Huawei Consumer Business Group Southern Africa. “This factor relates to the quality of products and after-sales service.” “Our local product centre monitors the quality of our products weekly, so that any hardware or software issues will be identified immediately and resolved,” added Zhao. Huawei is also expanding dedicated service teams to other cities across South Africa and improving the service delivery of local partners. “We are busy expanding Huawei’s service partners to include local businesses. Huawei will be developing these local partners so that they can also be equipped to deal with spare part management.” “In addition, we will be expanding Huawei’s dedicated service team, which is currently only located in Johannesburg, to include Cape Town and Durban.” Zhao said Huawei’s retail presence will remain the same for now, although it plans to roll out flagship stores across major cities in the future. “We have not planned any Huawei retail store expansion for the time being – however, in the future Huawei plans to set up brand experience stores in SA’s most popular large malls.” “Huawei has made good progress with our business in South Africa, because we have inspired great confidence in our partners and consumers. Our team will continue to work hard to bring quality products and services to this country.”