MyBroadband recently tested the mobile network quality on the West Coast as part of its country-wide mobile network testing project, which showed that users can get great speeds in these areas. The MyBroadband mobile network testing project is done in partnership with Afristay and Samsung, and provides a comprehensive look at cellular network quality in South Africa. The tests are conducted using the MyBroadband Speed Test App, running on our Samsung Galaxy S9 smartphone test bench. A SIM from each of the mobile operators – Vodacom, MTN, Cell C, and Telkom – is used in the Galaxy S9 phones, and performance tests are conducted on regular intervals while driving. MyBroadband’s speed test servers are hosted in Teraco’s vendor-neutral data centres to ensure a neutral testing environment. Through NAPAfrica, all network operators present at its peering points are provided with a free 10Gbps connection to the MyBroadband Speed Test platform. The latest route was along the West Coast of South Africa, with thousands of speed tests in Vredenburg, Paternoster, and Langebaan. We then calculated the Network Quality Score for the region and for each of the towns, which took download speed, upload speed, and latency into account. The Network Quality Score out of 10 shows how the networs performed in relation to other networks. Understanding the maps below: Each of the small red dots with a green circle around it indicates a test in that area. Larger red dots indicate multiple tests in the area. The mobile network quality on the West Coast was surprisingly good, with download speeds of around 100Mbps in certain areas. Telkom had excellent network quality in areas where it has coverage, which saw it top the West Coast network quality rankings. It should be noted that there are areas where Telkom had no coverage, and users can expect to roam on MTN’s 3G network. Vodacom and MTN have very good coverage in all areas, and had the best performance in Paternoster and Langebaan.  In Vredenburg, Telkom’s network performed exceptionally well – with an average download speed of 35Mbps and an average upload speed of 8.7Mbps.  The quaint town of Paternoster offers more than whitewashed homes and the best mussels you can buy. MTN’s average download speed of 41Mbps and average upload speed of 18Mbps was the best we saw on our West Coast trip.  Langebaan had the worst network quality among all the operators, but MTN still achieved an average download speed of 16Mbps in the town.  Thanks to our project partner Afristay, we spent the night at the luxurious five-star Abalone House & Spa in Paternoster. It is close to the beach, offers spacious rooms with everything you need, and the staff were always friendly and helpful. The best part was Reuben’s Restaurant, where we enjoyed the best mussels we have ever had. It is a world-class restaurant, and a must-visit when you are in the region.   