MyBroadband recently launched its countrywide mobile network testing project in partnership with Afristay and Samsung. The project will provide a comprehensive look at cellular network quality in South Africa, with thousands of tests across all mobile networks in the country. The project includes controlled drive tests in South Africa’s major metros, secondary cities, large towns, and major roads. Tests are conducted using the MyBroadband Speed Test App, running on a test bench with Samsung Galaxy S9 smartphones. A SIM from each mobile operator – Vodacom, MTN, Cell C, and Telkom – is used in the phones, and performance tests are conducted on regular intervals while driving. MyBroadband’s speed test servers are hosted in Teraco’s vendor-neutral data centres to ensure a neutral testing environment. Through NAPAfrica, all network operators present at its peering points are provided with a free 10Gbps connection to the MyBroadband Speed Test platform. The latest routes covered in the tests included the Klein Karoo, and then travelling to Worcester via Swellendam on the scenic Route 62. The Network Quality Score for the region and for each of the large towns was then calculated, which took the download speed, upload speed, and latency into account. Understanding the maps below – Each of the small red dots with the green circle around it indicates a test in an area. Larger red dots indicate multiple tests in the area. The mobile network quality for MTN and Vodacom was excellent in most of the towns along the route, and Telkom performed well in areas where it had coverage. The coverage, however, became patchy when we hit the mountain passes along the route. The large empty areas between the red spots on the maps indicate areas where no successful tests were conducted.  Telkom outperformed Vodacom and MTN in Oudtshoorn, with an average download speed of over 30Mbps, and an upload speed of 8.6Mbps.  Vodacom and MTN reigned supreme in Swellendam, with download speeds of close to 28Mbps each and upload speeds of over 6Mbps.  MTN had a big lead over its competitors in Robertson and achieved an average download speed of 24.7Mbps and an average upload speed of 6.9Mbps.  MTN performed particularly well in Worcester, with an average download speed of 33Mbps and an average upload speed of 12Mbps.  Thanks to our project partner Afristay, we stayed in great bed-and-breakfast establishments in Oudtshoorn and Worcester. In Oudtshoorn we stayed at the Riverside Guest Lodge, which offered very comfortable rooms and great service by the hosts. The breakfast was great, and the location is very close to restaurants.   In Worcester we stayed at the Rendez-vous De Golf guest house, which offered very spacious rooms and an excellent view of the town. The service was top-notch, and the breakfast was excellent.  