As part of the Vodacom Super Rugby Red Rewards campaign, seven loyal Vodacom Red clients and their partners will get a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to track, collar and vaccinate African wild dogs in the Kruger National Park from 20-22 June. With the help of SANParks, State Vets and the Endangered Wildlife Trust, the Vodacom Red clients will experience first-hand the valuable research efforts that come from being able to actively track Southern Africa’s most endangered carnivore, whose numbers have significantly reduced due to illegal poaching and other threats to their survival. But a job this big needs a team who know how to work together as a family and when it comes to leading his pack out onto the field, Vodacom Bulls coach John Mitchell is one of the best in the business. It’s no surprise then that Mitchell and three of his Vodacom Bulls players have answered the call and will join the fight in tackling the threat to wild dog populations head on. The lucky Vodacom Red clients will spend their days together with the Vodacom Bulls in the Kruger National Park learning and observing as the Endangered Wildlife Trust carry out their work, while spending their evenings in the company of Mitchell and the players, who no doubt will have plenty of stories about their Vodacom Super Rugby season so far. With their season-long #BullsFamily50K campaign bringing fans closer to their team, the Vodacom Bulls are the perfect partners for this unique Vodacom Red Rewards experience, which will allow conservationists to monitor the movement of these packs, through innovative technologies such as satellite tracking as well as Internet of Things (IOT) technology. The trip is the fourth on a list of once-in-a-lifetime, money-can’t-buy experiences being offered by Vodacom during the 2018 Vodacom Super Rugby season to its Vodacom Red clients. For a chance to be part of the pack, Vodacom Red clients should register their entries at www.vodacom.co.za/redrewards by June 4. More reasons to be on Red. This article was published in partnership with Vodacom.