There has been a resurgence in a movement encouraging people to delete their Facebook accounts, following reports that personal data was leaked from the platform. Calls to delete Facebook received additional traction when Elon Musk had the Facebook pages for Tesla and SpaceX deleted in the wake of the controversy. Those who wish to leave Facebook and are looking for alternative social networking sites are not short on choices, especially if you want an emphasis on data privacy. The list below shows what is currently on offer. MeWe has the inventor of the World Wide Web, Sir Tim Berners-Lee, on its board and was founded by Mark Weinstein. It operates under the slogan “Your private life is #Not4Sale,” encourages users to be authentic and uncensored, and promises to keep your information free from tracking, spying, and scraping. <span data-mce-type="bookmark" style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;" class="mce_SELRES_start">﻿</span> At the end of 2009, Facebook made changes to its privacy settings and policies, resulting in tremendous backlash. An open source project called Diaspora stood ready to capitalise on the growing negative sentiment, and launched a Kickstarter campaign on 24 April 2010. It raised $200,000, making it the second-most successful Kickstarter project at the time. Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg was among the project’s donors. Although Diaspora did not become the Facebook killer many of its backers had hoped, it is still being actively developed.  The advent of distributed ledger technology has enabled a new kind of social network where participants are rewarded with cryptocurrency. Steemit was founded by Ned Scott and Dan Larimer, the creator of BitShares and EOS. The platform rewards contributors, curators, and commenters for participating, while linking voting power to the amount of STEEM cryptocurrency you own. It has been criticised for being too centralised, with the majority of the blockchain’s tokens controlled by a handful of accounts.  Minds was founded in 2011 as an open source, privacy-focused alternative to the top global social networks. After leaving beta in March 2018, it released a white paper announcing the integration of an Ethereum ERC20 token into the platform – allowing users to earn cryptocurrency for contributions. The tokens may be spent on boosting posts, similar to Facebook, and you can buy and sell digital services and exclusive digital content.  Path is a social network which focuses on offering control over who you share information with. It has an advertising policy with a list of exclusions (tobacco, prescription drugs, alcohol, gambling, weapons), and operates under the statement “We believe that you are not a product.” <span data-mce-type="bookmark" style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;" class="mce_SELRES_start">﻿</span> Vero was briefly a darling Instagram alternative in 2018, before it emerged it was founded by Lebanese billionaire Ayman Hariri – the son of a former prime minister of Lebanon and the half-brother of the country’s current prime minister. While it requires your phone number on sign-up, Vero promises to only use your private details when you consent, to comply with local laws, to administer your account, and when using its built-in ecommerce functionality. Its business model was to allow free access to the platform for its first million subscribers, after which it would charge a fee to anyone else who signed up. The free sign-ups have been extended indefinitely. <span data-mce-type="bookmark" style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;" class="mce_SELRES_start">﻿</span> Ello was launched as an ad-free alternative to existing social networks in 2014. Recently, it has become an artist-focused service, calling itself “The Creators Network” – aimed at connecting and supporting a global community of artists. It has promised to: 