MyBroadband recently launched its country-wide mobile network testing project in partnership with Afristay and Samsung. The project will provide a comprehensive look at cellular network quality in South Africa, and includes controlled drive tests in South Africa’s major metros, secondary cities, large towns, and national roads. Thousands of tests will be conducted using the MyBroadband Speed Test App, running on a test bench of Samsung Galaxy S9 smartphones. A SIM from each of the major mobile operators – Vodacom, MTN, Cell C, and Telkom – are used in the Galaxy S9 phones, and performance tests are conducted at regular intervals while driving. MyBroadband’s speed test servers are hosted in Teraco’s vendor-neutral data centres to ensure a neutral testing environment. Through NAPAfrica, all network operators present at its peering points are provided with a free 10Gbps connection to the MyBroadband Speed Test platform. The first stop in the tests was the Garden Route, where MyBroadband tested the mobile network quality in George, Knysna, and Plettenberg Bay, and the N2 highway. We then calculated the Network Quality Score for the region and for each of the towns, which took download speed, upload speed, and latency into account. The Network Quality Score out of 10 shows how the network performed in relation to other networks. Understanding the maps below – Each of the small red dots with the green circle around it indicates a test in that area. Larger red dots indicate multiple tests in the area. MTN and Vodacom had excellent coverage across the Garden Route’s major towns and the N2 highway. MTN had the highest average download speed (23.6Mbps) and upload speed (9.1Mbps) in the region, and therefore topped the network quality rankings.  There was good mobile network coverage in George, with MTN and Vodacom offering the best service in all areas. MTN achieved the highest average download speed (27.5Mbps), upload speed (11.5Mbps), and latency (36ms) in George.  In Knysna, MTN, Telkom, and Vodacom provided a similar performance, and while MTN topped the rankings, the difference was not significant.  Plettenberg Bay enjoyed the highest average mobile network performance of all the Garden Route towns, with MTN topping the rankings with a download speed of 31.9Mbps and an upload speed of 13.5Mbps.  Thanks to our project partner Afristay, we stayed in the 5-star Conrad Pezula Golf Resort and Spa in Knysna. This hotel is world class. The service was impeccable, the room was spacious and had an excellent view of Knysna, and my wife said the spa was the best she has ever experienced. The Conrad Pezula Golf Resort and Spa shows the best South Africa has to offer, both in terms of location and quality of service.     The Garden Route is one of the most beautiful areas in the country, and we will definitely be back for another road trip soon.