Commercial print company Four Colour Print has expanded its digital printing capabilities with a state-of-the-art Xerox Versant 3100 press from Bytes Document Solutions’ (BDS) authorised service partner XBC-IT.  The Versant 3100 is a versatile and highly automated four-colour dry toner production press. A family-owned business, Four Colour Print was established in 2002 as a lithographic print company. It has since evolved into an integrated print solutions provider that offers lithographic, digital, and large-format printing, as well as print finishing, from its 3,600m2 production facility in Johannesburg. It services SMEs, NGOs, government, and multinational organisations throughout Southern Africa and in several countries in Europe. Four Colour Print had been using regular office printers which were no longer able to meet rising customer demand for digital print products, which is what drove their decision to buy a production press. “We have gone through a period of unprecedented growth, allowing the business to expand and invest in new technology,” says Johan Enslin, owner of Four Colour Print. “When we first decided to invest in the latest digital printing technology we investigated several options. Xerox’s quality met all our standards with colour consistency and accuracy being a priority. Cost was a major factor in the decision-making process, as was our need to deliver better turnaround times for our customers. Since we bought the Versant 3100, our company’s printing capabilities have significantly increased and our digital business has continued to grow. This has opened up new revenue streams for the business, and we are extremely happy with the performance of the press.” “We are now able to print duplex 350gsm, as well as long sheet sizes, which has enabled us to offer additional services to our clients.  The press also captures corporate colours accurately and consistently, giving us the ability to achieve what many of our competitors cannot. We can print on digital magnetic and synthetic media, and on matt or gloss coated media, and we can also use Versant prints as a proofing document for our litho printing.” James Carruthers, sales executive at XBC-IT, says that the Versant 3100 offers great versatility and time-saving automation, to help print companies run more short-run jobs per shift, as well as long-sheet capability and a choice of inline finishing options. “It was designed for commercial print businesses and offers high performance, high reliability, and high image quality,” he adds. “It’s the optimum solution for a print business seeking to achieve growth and meet performance goals.” Key features of the Versant 3100 include: “Having had no prior relationship with Xerox and XBC-IT, we are very satisfied with the quality of the Versant 3100 and the high level of service provided,” says Enslin. “We look forward to a long relationship with the brand.”  Four Colour Print was established in 2002 primarily as a lithographic print entity and has since evolved into an integrated print solutions provider encompassing Lithographic, Digital, Large-format and print finishing.  Our 3600 square meter production facility is based in Johannesburg South Africa from where we service a number of clients throughout Gauteng, South- and Southern Africa and Europe. The XBC Group of Companies, founded in 1998, comprises of XBC Network Products (Pty) Ltd and XBC Communications (Pty) Ltd specializing in providing leading edge Data, Voice, Print and Pro – Active Managed Services to the South African Market. We provide an unmatched portfolio of products and solutions to South African Businesses with the aim of being a successful and empowered market leader. www.xbcit.co.za James Carruthers, XBC-IT, PSG account manager, Contact no.: 083 284 1195, jamesc@xbc.co.za Bytes Document Solutions (BDS) is Africa’s leading document management technology and services company and the largest Xerox distributor in the world. It is the authorised Xerox distributor in 26 sub-Saharan countries offering the complete range of Xerox document equipment, software solutions and services. BDS forms part of JSE listed Allied Electronics Corporation (Altron). http://bytesdocumentsolutions.co.za This article was published in partnership with Bytes Document Solutions.