The 2018 Fifa World Cup is finally here and Betway online sports betting has all the soccer excitement to keep you scoring goal after goal this season. Whether you’re a betting fundi looking to up your game or a fun-loving novice, Betway is the best spot for any thrill-seeking sports enthusiast. With the World Cup about to kick off, there’s no need to even leave the comfort of your home to get in on the greatest ball game this year. All you need is your smartphone and the Betway mobile app to play and win anywhere, anytime. Known as the home of football action, you are treated to all the latest and updated match fixtures, news and scores in real time. Supporting any of the five fantastic African teams participating in this year’s magical event is as easy as a few clicks. Betway gives you even better chances to win big with three incredible promotions. Whether you’re a loyal member or newly signed up, you can already make your predictions for which teams will battle it out in the group stages, knock-outs or final championship to stand a chance to win up to millions in cash prizes. You also get to enter lucky draws when you bet on outrights such as Player of the Tournament or Best African Country. Score on daily promotions when you bet on your favourite team or player and walk away with fantastic prizes. Betting is easy and can be done right on your handset via any of the secure banking methods. And just because the World Cup is in Russia, there’s no need to change your currency when placing your bets – bet in your own currency using your own bank account or any of the quick-pay options like i-Pay or MPesa. A verification SMS is sent directly to your phone to confirm all your information. Your personal betting slip allows you to keep track of all open bets and a live ticker ensures you never miss out on the goals as they hit the back of the net. Betway’s crisp, clean interface gives you an incredibly realistic experince, with high-quality graphics and lag-free navigation for ease and convenience. The mobile app is fully operational on most Android and Apple smartphones and tablets and is also fitted with a one-click Live Chat option to access a support agent immediately when you need assistance. So get in on the game now and support your favourite African football squad to score your big rewards. This article was published in partnership with Betway.