South African golf fans will get an exclusive opportunity to experience the glamorous high life of a professional golfer as Vodacom Red Rewards offers 10 lucky Vodacom Red clients the chance to enjoy a golf tour of a lifetime. This June, 10 loyal Vodacom Red clients will join a host of Vodacom Super Rugby stars, as well as former rugby greats Victor Matfield and AJ Venter, Carte Blanche presenter Derek Watts and popular radio personality, Thomas Msengana, on a once-in-a-lifetime golf tour to two of South Africa’s most iconic golf courses. From 17-19 June, the golfers will be treated like their international tour-professional heroes. From chauffeur-driven luxury vehicles, to private jets, to five-star hotels, the winners will walk the fairways of two of South Africa’s most prestigious courses, the names of which will not be revealed until they arrive, to further heighten the exclusive nature of the experience. The Vodacom Red Golf Tour is part of an unforgettable season of Vodacom Red Rewards, which has already featured the highly successful Father and Son Sleepout on the main field at Loftus Versfeld, an unforgettable trip to Christchurch and Sydney to watch the Vodacom Bulls in action, and an adrenalin-charged Track Day at Kyalami with the legendary Scheckter family and Ferrari. But for any golf fan, this will be their Major moment, which promises to beat any birdie putt they’ve ever made! The two golf courses selected for this exclusive tour are guaranteed bucket-list experiences for any South African golf enthusiast and this will truly be an unbelievable trip that will stay with them forever. For three days, the winners of this Vodacom Red Reward will live out their dreams and get an in-depth look at what it’s like to tee it up at internationally acclaimed courses. To stand a chance of winning this top-of-the-leaderboard experience, Vodacom Red clients can register for the Vodacom Red Golf Tour at www.vodacom.co.za/redrewards. It’s a Major opportunity to be treated like the world number one, and one more reason to be on Vodacom Red. This article was published in partnership with Vodacom.