Copy Express, one of Cape Town’s fastest growing retail printing franchise chains, has added the Xerox Versant 80 to its flagship store. This purchase was made from Bytes Document Solutions (BDS) approved Xerox business partner, Cape Office Machines (COM). COM is South Africa’s longest Xerox partner having been in business for over 40 years, and has recently been acquired by BDS. The shopping centre-based store, headquartered in Bellville, bought the new press as an upgrade to the Xerox Color C70, offering customers even faster turnaround, improved quality, and an expanded range of print products – including 660mm x 330mm size posters. “When we first launched the store, the C70 was the perfect solution to go beyond the stock-standard concept of a copy store and create an all-in-one print, business, and signage concept store for walk-in, corporate, and online customers,” says Copy Express founder and owner Christo Nel. “Now, with seven franchised stores and the business growing from strength to strength, we wanted to take the business to another level. It is a serious upgrade in every way, rivalling the best colour quality we’ve seen from litho printers that cost many times more, and far more cost-effective for print runs up to 2,000 to 3,000 A4 sheets.” The Versant 80 eliminates inconsistent manual colour processes and operator error with Xerox’s Automated Color Quality Suite (ACQS). ACQS takes the variability out of the colour equation by leveraging a full spectrum of colour management hardware and software tools, including an optional inline spectrophotometer to calibrate, create, and verify colour profiles automatically. ACQS also eliminates mistakes due to human error or misfeeds when calibrating by hand, while achieving accurate and consistent results. Colour accuracy is backed up by Xerox’s industry-standard print engine, featuring Ultra HD 1200x1200x 10-bit rendering resolution (2400×2400 dpi print resolution) up to 80 ppm print speeds for a wide range of media and substrates up to 350 gsm. The 10-bit processing delivered by the EFITM Fiery Print Server and Versant 80 increases the possible number of traditional pick points four times more than the digital press standard, making for stunning results on every page. “The Versant 80 is the perfect machine for businesses wanting to take the step up to best-in-class print quality without breaking the bank, and put in place the foundations for future expansion,” says Cape Office Machines production press specialist, Bryn Whithair. “We’ve been working with Christo and his team for a long time now, and are constantly impressed by the work they’ve done, and the lengths they’ve gone to in achieving their success,” he says. “Copy Express had a real advantage when they set out to conquer the market.” Co-owner and industry expert, Wayne Theunissen, concluded by saying, the biggest winners are our customers. “We pride ourselves on providing fast, high-quality printing, courier and business services while maintaining an exceptional level of customer service standards. “For us, it means that customers who were previously unwilling or unable to wait five days for litho prints of their flyers or stationery can now have them done with us overnight, and since most of them don’t need more than a few hundred prints at a time, it also makes financial sense. “With the V80 in place, we can even print medium-format posters that are only slightly smaller than A2, but at a fraction of the price of A2 inkjet prints. Customers that have come to us before with orders of five or ten poster prints are now making a hundred in one go – it is just that much more cost-effective, and the quality is even better than before.” Nel says every Copy Express store currently fitted with a Xerox Color C70 will be upgraded to the Versant 80 when it reaches capacity, and future stores will follow the same C70/V80 upgrade path. For more information, visit the Bytes Document Solutions website. This article was published in partnership with Bytes Document Solutions.