AI in smartphones has quickly become one of the most important technology trends of 2018, and Huawei’s P20 Series showcases this perfectly with its Leica Camera and Kirin 970 processor combination. The latest flagship smartphones from Huawei feature the best in smartphone camera technology and intelligent photography, letting users taking stunning pictures with ease. The Huawei P20 phones feature new-generation Leica cameras, which deliver clear, richly-detailed photographs. The Huawei P20 Pro boasts one of the world’s first Leica triple-lens camera systems, with the highest total pixel count available on a smartphone. The camera includes a 40MP RGB sensor, a 20MP monochrome sensor, and an 8MP sensor with telephoto lens. The Huawei P20 is equipped with a Leica dual-camera system, with a 12MP RGB and 20MP monochrome sensor set-up. With its wide aperture lenses that strike a large image sensor – packing a 1.55 μm pixel – the P20 absorbs more light in low-light settings.  It also includes the Leica zoom lens system for 5X Hybrid Zoom, allowing users to take outstanding images with intricate detail at a distance. The rear cameras on both devices also deliver improved sharpness and colour accuracy, and the devices’ 24MP front cameras offer vibrant images, day or night. What sets Huawei’s latest flagship devices even further apart is that they make use of Artificial Intelligence capabilities to simplify the process of taking and managing photos. The AI technology used in the devices allows the photography systems to recognise scenes by determining which shapes and objects are present in the frame – with the phones able to identify over 500 scenarios in 18 different categories. Once an object or a scene is identified, the smartphone automatically adjusts the shot to produce the best possible results. Through machine learning, the devices also understand the photography habits of users over time, making suggestions based on previous actions. The AI capabilities also offer image stabilisation, producing blur-free capturing with handheld shots, and improved low-light images, using night mode. Night mode balances high-contrast scenes for clear, light-balanced snaps in any setting – which is crucial in ensuring your photos look good regardless of how much ambient light is available. The Huawei P20 and P20 Pro are able to deliver this exceptional photographic performance thanks to their high-end Kirin 970 processor – a speedy, AI-focused chip made by Huawei. The Kirin 970 processor recognises the scene being framed by the smartphone’s camera and adjusts lighting and colour balance automatically. The photography system also makes instant intelligent layout suggestions to improve the photo composition – making photos appear as if they were taken by a professional. With smartphones often pulled out quickly to take a photo, or operated by an individual who may not understand how to take the best shot, the AI-powered camera systems in the P20 and P20 Pro allow owners to take great photos every time they point and shoot.  This article was published in partnership with Huawei.