In 2018, MyBroadband partnered with South Africa’s top ICT companies – which offer you the best telecoms and IT services for your home or business. High-quality and affordable ICT services are important to ensure smooth business operations, especially in an increasingly-online business environment. With a large number of companies available, however, it can be challenging to find the right one for your business or home. To make it easy for you to find great companies for your connectivity, voice services, and IT needs, we have compiled a list of the top local IT and telecoms players. Connection Telecom delivers real-time communication solutions, providing more context, speed, and accuracy to customers, straddling messaging, voice, managed network services and visual communication.  Vodacom Business offers a wide range of broadband, cloud, hosting, mobile, voice, Internet-of-Things, and tracking solutions.  Vox is a market-leading ICT and infrastructure provider, which offers a wide range of services – including data, voice, cloud, business collaboration, and conferencing tools.  CipherWave provides growing businesses with a range of solutions to help them connect, communicate, and collaborate with their customers, employees, and suppliers.  WIRUlink uses the latest wireless and fibre technologies to offer data and voice services to businesses and homes in South Africa.  Afrihost is an award-winning ISP which offers DSL, fibre, mobile, LTE, hosting, and mobile services to consumers and businesses.  Axiz is an industry-leading information technology value-added distributor focused on solutions ranging from Edge Client Devices, Core Data Centre hardware and software, and Cloud software and services.  Nashua helps businesses to increase their efficiency with office automation, document management, and integrated business solutions.  Mint is a technology consultancy and development company that specialises in Enterprise Content Management, CRM, Cloud applications, and mobile services.  Ruckus is a pioneer in the Wi-Fi infrastructure market, enabling carriers and enterprises to stay ahead of the exploding demand for high-bandwidth applications and services.  InnoVent offers “pay-per-use” leasing solutions to companies and institutions to help them finance the purchase of brand new equipment.  Brother is a leading brand which produces high-quality, innovative products in the print, imaging, and labelling segments.  This article was published in partnership with MyBroadband Partners.