The Nokia brand has a long-standing reputation of being durable and offering great battery life. This was especially true for feature phones like the original Nokia 3310, which was popular due to its rugged design and reliability. While the phone brand has strayed into new territories in recent years – including a series of Windows Mobile-based smartphones – its recent partnership with HMD Global has placed it back on track. Nokia recently launched a revamped version of its 3310, which offers 16MB of RAM and support for Bluetooth and GSM networks. The device was a throwback to the original feature phone, and attracted nostalgic users, but it was quickly eclipsed by its latest range of smartphones – including the Nokia 1. At only R200 more than the new 3310, the Nokia 1 offers a full smartphone experience – complete with Android 8.1 Go, 1GB of RAM, an IPS LCD display, and LTE connection support. The new smartphone is a great value offering for users who want reliability, extended battery life, and features offered by a modern smartphone. To see how long the Nokia 1’s 2,150mAh battery lasts with its modern features, we tested its power consumption in real-world conditions. The device’s manufacturer said the Nokia 1’s battery should deliver the following lifespans: For our test, we turned the phone on, turned on the LTE modem – with an active SIM in it – and Wi-Fi connection, and left it on an office desk. All unnecessary background apps on the device were disabled and Android’s battery saver tool was turned off. This setup simulated a standard standby battery power draw, with the device’s screen only used when the battery levels were checked at certain intervals. It is important to note that the Nokia 1 received emails and SMSs as normal during this period, which resulted in the device vibrating and the screen briefly turning on. This test was expected to result in a lower standby time than the manufacturer-specified value, as LTE and Wi-Fi were left on.  We then checked the battery percentage reading on the Nokia 1 at various intervals, comparing the drain per hour for each period. The battery reading results and battery drain-per-hour measurements for each time interval are listed below. The test showed that the average battery drain per hour increased over the course of the experiment. This may be attributed to increased messaging traffic throughout this period or core background services using more processing power. The standby readings are impressive nonetheless, with the device projected to last 200 hours on standby at the fastest measured battery drain level. Running intensive applications is a different story, however, with the Nokia 1 eating through 2% of its battery every 10 minutes while streaming Netflix. Its standby battery life combined with its attractive price and feature-rich operating system make the Nokia 1 a great backup phone or a “I don’t want to take my expensive device” alternative.