Techtraders strives to deliver state-of-the-art peripherals and PC components to enthusiast gamers. Cougar Gaming gear is designed with the gamer’s unique needs in mind, with a focus on delivering state of the art features at competitive prices. “We know that South Africans demand the highest quality gear at the most competitive price point,” states Techtraders. “We also know that in South Africa, gaming is more than just a way to kill time. It’s a way of life. It’s art. It’s competitive sport. It’s leisure. It’s fun. It’s a way of connecting with a community who are as passionate as you are.”  In March 2017 Cougar Gaming launched in South Africa, providing innovative and cutting-edge German designed products to the local market. “While quality is one of the most important characteristics of our products, so is affordability,” adds Techtraders. “With all of our new Cougar Gaming gear we really want to make sure you maximize your investment, and this is why value for money is such an important consideration to us.” Since launching locally Techtraders have experienced incredible success with their Cougar Gaming chairs, which are products they believe best embodies this ethos. The premium Armor Chair series mixes unparalleled comfort, an adjustable design, quality, and durability at an affordable price point that is within reach of most gamers. It’s not uncommon to see the Armor series of chairs in boardrooms, offices, or design studios!  Techtraders has also partnered with some great South African talent in the gaming community, including YouTuber Kyle “Pacman10154” Swart and competitive gaming organization Exdee Gaming. Techtraders added, “We’ve even partnered with some really interesting people like Stefan Garlicki, who is a South African downhill racer! Stefan is as obsessed with anything that has 2 wheels as we are about PC gear!” Cougar Gaming gear is available right now at Takealot, alongside a week-long 10% discount deal on all Cougar Gaming products. Head over to Takealot between Monday 28 May and Sunday 03 June 2018 to take advantage of these great specials, while stocks last! Make sure you keep an eye out for more awesome Cougar Gaming products launching at Computex in June. Are you ready to join us?  This article was published in partnership with Techtraders.