Honor recently launched its new smartphones in South Africa, offering affordable devices with flagship-grade features. Among these devices is the Honor 9 Lite, which is a sleek and stylish smartphone designed in line with modern flagship trends and priced at the same point as a mid-range smartphone. It offers impressive hardware specifications – such as 3GB of RAM and a HiSilicon Kirin 659 processor – and includes an array of unique camera features. Pairing the latest version of Android with two sets of dual-camera systems, the Honor 9 Lite can take great photos in any environment.  Encased within a stylish bevelled frame is the device’s 3,000mAh battery and dual SIM slots, offering users impressive battery life and the freedom to alternate between cellular networks at the touch of a button. The Honor 9 Lite also sports dual-camera systems on the front and back, both of which feature 13MP + 2MP sensors. A high-resolution FullView display delivers a crystal-clear image using an IPS LCD panel, which offers increased viewing angles compared to other LCD displays. The smartphone also sports a glossy finish on its back panel and is available in a variety of attractive colours. The specifications of the Honor 9 Lite smartphone are below.  The Honor 9 Lite is a great smartphone for any user, and is ideal for those looking to take great photos either in standard or selfie mode. The dual-camera design allows for next-level selfies, thanks to an intelligent bokeh effect which delivers perfect depth-of-field shots without effort. Unique features such as panorama selfies, gesture-control shooting, and built-in effects make the Honor 9 Lite one of the best smartphones on the market for selfie shots. Similar features are carried over to the device’s rear camera, and an intelligent portrait mode automatically beautifies shots with effects based on the gender of the subject. Thanks to its PDAF fast focus, the Honor 9 Lite’s camera can also quickly focus on a subject and take a clear image without unnecessary delays. Additionally, an advanced wide aperture mode enables users to refine the focus of their image after taking the shot. All of these features run on top of Android 8.0, using the sleek and efficient EMUI 8.0 skin – which features improved performance and battery life over previous software generations. The back of the device also sports a fingerprint sensor which is recessed into the chassis. The fingerprint sensor is lightning-fast, and allows you to unlock your device in just 0.25 seconds. The Honor 9 Lite further supports face unlock, letting you access your smartphone at a simple glance instead of physically touching the fingerprint sensor.  This article was published in partnership with Honor.