Vox has released information on its new IoT applications, outlining what is has launched along with plans for future devices. The company has partnered with SqwidNet to provide customers with connectivity, data analytics, and reporting for Internet of Things applications. SqwidNet is a local network provider for IoT systems and the sole Sigfox operator in South Africa. Vox’s plans for a smart IoT platform include a number of products, and the company is involved with the implementation of numerous IoT applications in the SME sector.  SqidNet’s IoT network allows for the deployment of cheap, low-energy devices which can reliably and regularly transfer data. Internet of Things devices have the potential to greatly improve performance and efficiency across a large number of industries, from agriculture to freight to transport. There are a number of applications which Vox has launched on its smart IoT platform, including: These applications are available from the Vox website and can be purchased outright or through a fixed rental contract. The prices for Vox’s existing IoT products are listed below. Vox also outlined the upcoming IoT applications it would launch on its smart platform. All of these devices can be monitored by a smartphone application and aim to improve efficiency across everything from billing issues to vehicle tracking. Vox said it will release the following IoT apps soon: Vox said it will launch these products – and more, including a Water Level Alert device – in the next few months, and added that the pricing for the new offerings would be “very disruptive and affordable”. The company said its primary focus for its IoT products is B2B markets, but added it is looking at launching consumer products later this year. “We are currently evaluating several B2C products that will be launched later this year, including a domestic animal tracker with a battery anatomy of two years,” said a Vox spokesperson. By building its own IoT platform instead of partnering with an international company, Vox said it has the ability to launch an IoT ecosystem which is device and network agnostic. “To this end, we are able to launch new IoT products enabled by applications for Android, iOS, and Web Browsers at a rapid rate.” “Since we own the code to our IoT platform, we can build bespoke solutions for our customers as they are required.” Vox said it also only uses local IoT device manufacturers to ensure the products it launches are built for South African conditions.