At the start of May, MyBroadband investigated Vodacom’s WASP-blocking option – which the operator previously stated customers could enable by completing a form. When visiting a Vodacom store and asking for the required form, however, we were informed there was no option to block WASP subscriptions on Vodacom SIMs. Speaking to an agent through Vodacom’s customer care line yielded the same result. A Vodacom spokesperson responded by stating it had stopped the process where customers were required to complete a form to block WASPs. Instead, it said customers could block WASP services by calling the customer care call centre. It added that MyBroadband should have been given the option to block WASPs when we called its customer care line, and apologised for error. “We have reiterated the cancellation process to agents at call centres and Vodacom shops,” said Vodacom. Vodacom also features a double-opt-in process for WASP services on its network, and customers can unsubscribe to all content services by sending an SMS with the words “Stop All” to 31050. Telkom and Cell C offer the option to block WASPs by default through app settings and USSD menus. We tested these functions and found them to work as intended. After Vodacom’s promise to reiterate the WASP-blocking option to staff, we waited a few weeks and put the “block WASPs” test into action once again. We waited over three weeks after our initial test and then set out again, expecting Vodacom agents to be aware of the option this time around. First up, we visited a Vodacom Store in Sandton to ask about blocking WASP subscriptions on a prepaid SIM. A Vodacom employee told us it was not possible to block WASP subscriptions on the Vodacom network, and suggested that we call the customer care line for assistance for unsubscribing from existing WASP services. We then called the Vodacom customer care line and spoke to an agent, requesting that all WASP services be blocked on our Vodacom SIM. The Vodacom agent said this was “totally not possible” on the Vodacom network, and reiterated that the onus is on the subscriber to avoid WASP subscriptions. This raises the question: How does a Vodacom customer block all WASPs if Vodacom employees tell you the option does not exist? Vodacom told MyBroadband it has seen a dramatic increase in the number of successfully-executed WASP-blocking requests since it reiterated the correct process for Vodacom staff. “We have also stepped up various proactive initiatives internally in a concerted attempt to ensure that all consultants are well versed on the matter,” said a Vodacom spokesperson. “It would be unfortunate to imply that none of our consultants know the correct process. There are over 9,000 people in our call centres and in Vodacom stores. The vast majority of these women and men are doing us proud. The company said it aims to deliver the best customer experience possible and that customers are able to block WASPs by requesting the option through its call centre. “While it is always disappointing when we do slip up, rest assured we are doing our utmost to ensure that we continue to deliver a superior customer experience.”