Vodacom is changing the game with the mother of all experiences by giving away an all-expenses-paid trip of a lifetime to the 2018 Vodacom Super Rugby Final, exclusive to Vodacom Red clients. Vodacom Red will take their lucky clients straight to the Vodacom Super Rugby final action in VIP style – wherever in the rugby world that may be! Whether the final is keeping it local here in South Africa, or jetting off to Australia, New Zealand or Argentina, Vodacom Red will make sure their winners experience the final in truly unforgettable fashion. With all-access, VIP passes, to behind-the-scenes experiences, Vodacom Red will elevate the Vodacom Super Rugby Final to a status never seen before. Joining the Vodacom Super Rugby Red Final Tour will be one of South African rugby’s most well known stars, Breyton Paulse, who will be on hand to describe the scenes and put Vodacom Red clients as close to the action as possible with first-hand accounts of what it’s like to compete in rugby’s toughest competition. Once the thrilling excitement of the Final is done and dusted and our Vodacom Red clients have re-gained their breath, we’ll show them the sites and sounds of the host country, ensuring the winners soak up the atmosphere in-and-around the Final. Flights, accommodation and everything in-between is fully taken care of by Vodacom, as part of a list of once-in-a-lifetime, money-can’t-buy experiences being offered to Vodacom Red clients. The Vodacom Super Rugby Red Final Tour is part of an unforgettable season of Vodacom Red Rewards, which has already featured the highly successful Father and Son Sleepout on the main field at Loftus Versfeld, an unforgettable trip to Christchurch and Sydney to watch the Vodacom Bulls take on the Crusaders, and an adrenalin-charged Track Day at Kyalami Grand Prix Circuit with the legendary Scheckter family and race-spec Ferraris. If you want to pack your bags and be part of the crown jewel of the Vodacom Red Rewards experiences, Vodacom Red clients should register for a chance to be a part of the Vodacom Super Rugby Red Final Tour at www.vodacom.co.za/redrewards by June 4. More reasons to be on Red. This article was published in partnership with Vodacom.