AxxonSoft, a leading security and surveillance software developer, launched its revolutionary surveillance service – the Incident Management Centre (IMC) in South Africa on 22 May. This will mean a massive change in the way South African businesses do surveillance – especially for those in retail, banking, transport, as well as for those who resell, install and service CCTV systems. After achieving great success in many countries, the IMC will see the smart and safe city concept finally being implemented in South Africa. The IMC provides valuable insights to customers based on metadata collected from thousands of independent devices and systems around the country, which helps businesses to prepare for possible breaches, and respond at the time by leveraging their immediate incident response system and integration with the relevant authorities. The Incident Management Centre is offered to businesses on a managed services model, either integrating with existing hardware and connectivity, or by providing a turnkey solution ranging from CCTV hardware, fibre connectivity, to monitoring and management around the clock. The IMC technology uses artificial intelligence and deep learning to analyse data from thousands of interconnected devices to deliver real-time insights to customers. The system is hardware vendor agnostic, and is proven to work with over 10,000 IP devices and 3,000 models of network devices, which means that clients can plug, play, and enjoy the benefits of the IMC solution without having to replace their existing investment in CCTV hardware. Local authorities and security companies are already part of the central database, so when an offender enters a premises without authorisation, or a vehicle is stolen, authorities will already have been alerted. The IMC comes with a range of cutting-edge features, giving it revolutionary characteristics. The IMC monitors and controls all public utilities and allows businesses to detect and report problems in real-time. The benefits include: The IMC monitors and secures transportation, vehicles, and transport areas using Artificial Intelligence. The benefits include: The IMC can perform a variety of tasks, such as crowd control and proactive monitoring of cashiers and customers at the point-of-sale with intelligent video. The benefits include: Most of all, these features enable users to gather statistics and data and take the guessing out of a business’s security strategy. The IMC is currently live and serving thousands of devices.  To deliver advanced surveillance as a service within your business, or to your clients’ businesses, please contact Colleen Glaeser, AxxonSoft Southern Africa and SADC region MD and Director for the IMC, on 086 132 7772 or via email: info@imcaxxon.com. This article was published in partnership with AxxonSoft.