We used Afristay to find accommodation for our recent MyBroadband speed test road trip, and the service was excellent. MyBroadband recently launched South Africa’s largest-ever mobile network testing project, which includes controlled drive tests by MyBroadband across South Africa. We will travel over 10,000km over the next three months, and we needed a top-class partner to ensure we can easily book accommodation for the road trips. MyBroadband therefore partnered with Afristay as an accommodation partner, and the service which we have received from them was excellent. If you are looking for a place to stay, Afristay allows you to type the name of the town or region you are travelling through. You can then filter the listings according to several “must have” criteria, your minimum and maximum budget, and the type of accommodation needed. For those travelling on business like us, the “Wi-Fi” filter was indispensable. It is also possible to view Afristay’s listings on a map – handy when you’re trying to find accommodation along a particular route, or in a specific part of a town.   Afristay offers two types of bookings: standard enquiries, and instant confirmation. Instant confirmation means that a host has kept their rates and availability information up-to-date and allows you to book without the venue approving the reservation. All of the bookings for our first road trip were standard enquiries, and we received feedback from hosts nearly immediately to either confirm a preliminary booking, or to inform us they were fully booked. Once a host has approved your booking, you have a set period within which to pay a deposit to secure the reservation. When your booking is paid, it gets added to your itinerary where you can view the location and other details of the accommodation, and request an update to your reservation.  The entire Afristay experience is user-friendly, from the search and booking procedure, to the way prices are provided. Prices quoted through the site are what you will actually pay – there are no additional booking, service, or cleaning fees that you’ll discover later in the booking process. There were no hitches with check-in or check-out at any of the venues we stayed, and all the amounts paid reflected accurately on our hosts’ systems. As a final sweetener, Afristay issues rewards vouchers for every stay you complete, with reward values linked to the amount you spend on accommodation. From start to finish, Afristay was a pleasure to use.