A Vodacom customer billed for “Vodafone Live” content, despite not signing up for the service, has voiced his disappointment in the network operator. The customer, who requested that his name be withheld, is one of many users who contacted MyBroadband about the problem. An extensive thread on the Vodacom forum, with multiple customers complaining about being billed for the service, was also created. According to Vodacom’s website, Vodafone Live is a “treasure trove of mobile entertainment”. “You can download music and cellphone games, watch mobile TV and so much more,” states the website. One of the customers who contacted MyBroadband stated that he was billed for Vodafone Live content at R10 per day until his airtime ran out one month. “I am extremely tech-savvy and I assure you that I did not subscribe to anything,” he said. “The only thing I can think of is that someone subscribed on my behalf or this is some sort of a billing glitch.” He added that “Vodacom insisted they do not have control over this and how it gets activated”, after contacting the company for assistance. “At the very least a confirmation SMS can be sent out by Vodacom confirming that such a subscription was done by the client,” he said. “The helpdesk was of little to no use and they told me the matter is being escalated and that I will receive feedback within a whopping seven business days.” After the customer was in contact with MyBroadband and we sent media questions to Vodacom on the matter, he said he received a refund from the company for the airtime that was deducted. He did not receive feedback from Vodacom on his requests for proof that he signed up for the service, however. “I want to know how the subscription was made possible,” he said. “Yes, they did refund my airtime, but I have zero confidence or assurance that Vodacom is serious with stopping or at least implementing reasonable measures to ensure their customers are not victims of unfair subscriptions.” “I find it extraordinary that Vodacom sends you a notification and/or confirmation for everything you do on their network, but it is somehow beyond them to even as much as inform you – never mind confirm – that you have entered into a subscription service that, in my case, even exceeded the monthly cost of my contract.” A Vodacom spokesperson told MyBroadband that it has resolved the complaint submitted by the customer referenced in this article, and cancelled the Vodafone Live subscription. “Our initial investigation shows that a Vodacom Live Games service was activated on 26 April and that in this instance a confirmation SMS was not activated,” said Vodacom. “As we have said previously, we have a zero-tolerance approach to any fraudulent activity on our network and have previously suspended and terminated the services of transgressors.” “Vodacom will take appropriate action once the investigation fully runs its course.”