Vodacom customers have taken to the company’s forum and MyBroadband to complain about content services being billed to their accounts without their permission. According to a MyBroadband reader, who is a Vodacom customer and requested that his name not be published, he is being billed for “Vodafone Live” content despite not signing up for the service. He stated that the Vodafone Live service billed him R10 every day on his TopUp contract until his airtime ran out. “I am extremely tech-savvy and I assure you that I did not subscribe to anything,” he told MyBroadband. “The only thing I can think of is that someone subscribed on my behalf or this is some sort of a billing glitch.” He said he contacted Vodacom, which said it will look into the matter. According to Vodacom’s website, Vodafone Live is a “treasure trove of mobile entertainment”. “You can download music and cellphone games, watch mobile TV and so much more,” states the website. The service is available to all customers, and browsing is free. Users then pay for content like games, ringtones, music, and mobile TV. In the same week as the complaint above, MyBroadband received a separate complaint about Vodafone Live billing from another reader. We also discovered an extensive thread on the Vodacom forum, with multiple customers complaining about being billed for the service without signing up. Complaints ranged in terms of the amounts which were billed, but one user stated they were charged over R200 per month from February 2018. Another user stated: “Checking on my account this morning there was a deduction of over R70 for Vodafone Live – something I have not subscribed to and Vodacom cannot give me any detail on this. I want proof that I have subscribed.” The Vodacom forum thread was started in December 2017, and contains complaints up to May 2018. The “solution” posted in the thread was to log in to the Vodacom Live portal and unsubscribe from the service, but it did not provide feedback on how users were signed up without their permission. Vodacom was asked for comment on the matter, but was unable to provide feedback by the time of publication. Vodacom was also asked if Vodafone Live and Vodacom Live are the same platform, and offer the same services.