The ZA Central Registry (ZACR) said users may see changes to the personal information displayed in the Whois database for EPP-based domain name registrations. ZACR CEO Lucky Masilela said they are working towards implementing a masking functionality for their EPP-based domain name registrations by 5 June 2018. This follows the implementation of the EU’s General Data Protection Regulations, which come into effect on 25 May, and the pending implementation of POPI in South Africa. “Users of the Whois database for EPP-based (Extensible Provisioning Protocol) domain name registrations should not be surprised to see their personal information no longer displayed for many of the data fields forming part of generally-accepted Whois Standards,” said Masilela. “Users of the Whois system will soon see the message Redacted for Privacy Purposes displayed on the database when they search for data subjects affected by GDPR provisions.” In the domain name space, personal data relates primarily to data identifiers such as registrants’ billing, admin names, email contacts, physical and postal addresses, and telephone numbers, he said. “The ZACR is working towards the implementation of final data protection measures specifically relating to the presentation of personal information on the Whois system. ZACR encourages all end users to make use of privacy proxy services where applicable and/or to provide its service providers and the Registry directly with written consent to mitigate against the risk of data breaches taking place.” This move is “Phase 1” of the ZACR’s plan to be compliant with data protection regulations. “Phase 2” will address data protection management as a “long-term responsibility within the development and review of existing and new policies, charters, and technical systems”. “It is important to note, however, that the Registry will still expect relevant information to be supplied by its accredited RARs for the domain name registration process.” The ZACR said its Data Protection Officer may be contacted at dp@registry.net.za.