MTN recently launched its new social data bundles, which offer discounted rates for use on platforms like WhatsApp and Facebook. The bundles are substantially cheaper than standard data packages and are available in a number of configurations. Competing networks in South Africa also offer packages for social media platforms, although the only other operator with dedicated social media bundles is Cell C. Telkom and Vodacom offer unique add-ons to existing packages, however, which allow users to save data when using social media. To see how they stack up, we compared the pricing and features of various social data bundles from South African mobile networks. MTN and Cell C offer dedicated social data bundles, granting subscribers access to social media at discounted prices. MTN’s social bundles are available in 1-day, 7-day, or 30-day configurations. Cell C’s packages are only available in 30-day bundles, but include extra standard data, talk time, and more. The social data bundles offered by MTN, Cell C, and Telkom, sorted by bundle expiry and price, are shown below. Only bundles which included data for WhatsApp, Facebook, Twitter, or YouTube were included. While Vodacom does not offer dedicated social bundles, it does help subscribers stay in touch with social media through Facebook Flex. Facebook Flex allows Vodacom subscribers to like, share, and comment on Facebook posts without using mobile data. Telkom offers a number of add-ons which allow users to access services without eating into their standard mobile data. The operator includes 500MB of WhatsApp social data with all of its FreeMe boost once-off data bundles, starting at R70 for 500MB. Telkom LIT also offers free music and video streaming, depending on which package the subscriber has purchased. In addition to offering prepaid LIT packages, Telkom bundles the service with certain FreeMe packages. Subscribers on a FreeMe 2GB package or up get free access to LIT music streaming, and those on a 5GB FreeMe package or better also receive access to LIT video.