Axiz has launched Ring video surveillance products in South Africa – smart security solutions that allow users to monitor their property using a smartphone. Ring is a leader in home security, selling connected doorbells, security cameras, and floodlights that can be monitored remotely and create “a Ring of security around your home.” “We started with a mission to reduce neighbourhood crime in 2013, in a way that is both cost-effective and easy to install,” said Mohammad Meraj Hoda, Ring Vice President, Business Development, speaking at the local launch in Johannesburg. The following products from Ring are now available in South Africa.  The Ring Spotlight Cam monitors homes, allowing users to see, hear, and speak to anyone on the property from a phone, tablet, or PC. It offers 1080HD video, a wide-angle camera lens, a built-in microphone and speakers, and infrared night vision sensors. Users can create and customise motion zones, and will get an instant alert when motion is detected. The Ring Spotlight Cam can also sound a 110-decibel alarm to scare potential intruders away. It is available in three power options — wired, battery, and solar.  The Ring Floodlight Cam is a motion-activated HD camera with built-in floodlights, two-way audio, and a siren alarm. It features a built-in microphone and speakers, two ultra-bright LED floodlights, and a 110-decibel alarm. The Floodlight Cam also includes dual sensors with object and facial detection, and a 270-degree field-of-view that detects motion around corners and monitors blind spots. It allows for customisable motion zones and scheduling, and sends instant alerts to your smartphone, tablet, or PC whenever it detects motion. With the app, users are able to remotely flash the lights, sound the alarm, and zoom-in to focus on important areas.  The Ring Video Doorbell 2 features 1080HD wide-angle video as well as a built-in microphone and speakers. It allows users to remotely answer the door from a smartphone, tablet, or PC, and provides instant mobile alerts when anyone presses the doorbell or triggers the built-in motion sensors. The Ring Video Doorbell 2 can be installed in any home and includes a quick-release rechargeable battery, allowing users to charge the Video Doorbell 2 without removing the device. It can also be hardwired. The accompanying Ring App is iOS, Android, Mac, and Windows 10 compatible. Each new device will get 30 days of free cloud storage, available for $3 per device per month thereafter on the Ring Protect Basic Plan. On the Ring Protect Plus Plan, users can connect an unlimited number of devices for $10 per month. “In South Africa, these devices can work in conjunction with armed response companies to offer people added safety,” concluded Hoda. For more information, visit the Axiz website.  This article was published in partnership with Axiz.