Jaco Voigt took the helm at TeleMasters in January 2018, and he is upbeat about the prospects of the company in South Africa. He describes the company as “one of the industry’s best-kept secrets”, with a great national network without legacy technology constraints. “We connect to a multitude of open-access connectivity providers, enabling us to offer wider coverage to our partners and customers than many of the older incumbents,” he said. “We further offer industry-leading application solutions that we believe will fundamentally change the way that people work.”  As the MD of PerfectWorx – a niche technical consulting company – Voigt has worked closely with JSE-listed TeleMasters for years. Being in charge of an SME is, however, very different from serving as CEO of a listed company. Fortunately, Voigt is not new to the complexities of running a large corporate – as he was part of the original listing of what became Vox Telecom. “Coming from the SME PerfectWorx which I ran for the past few years, running a listed company is an exciting new challenge. It is definitely more demanding,” he said. “My team is a lot bigger and there are more partners and customers that require my attention. In saying that, it is a very exciting time for me.” Voigt believes the fact that TeleMasters is listed provides the company with a platform to deliver value as a true South African company. “Being listed holds us to high financial and operational standards, and also provides decision-comfort to our customers that we’re here to stay and evolve with them,” he said. “As we continue to show and grow value, I am confident that our listing will aid future growth plans.” He also praised his “world-class board”, which he draws from for guidance and support. “I also enjoy having a fantastic team to work with every day, working for a unified goal,” he said. With connectivity as a strong foundation, Voigt plans to wrap as much value around it as possible. TeleMasters has a strong position in delivering cloud voice application services, which remains a growth area for the company. The next big growth area for it will be its “unique flavour” of unified communications – which is an evolution of its current cloud offering. “I believe the ease of use and obvious productivity benefits, together with it being local without any complications, will make this a major winner for us this year,” said Voigt. Although the company’s full strategy is still being finalised, Voigt said he would like to keep things simple to grow the business and deliver value to stakeholders.