Innovation and digital transformation are driving the shift to cloud, resulting in a surge for managed cloud services. According to an IDC study, it is predicted that 73% of CIOs will embrace a “cloud-first” strategy in 2018. End-customers are not only migrating workloads to the cloud, but are investing in cloud to support new capabilities as they evolve their businesses. According to the IDC, cloud spending is also expected to exceed $500 billion by 2021. Axiz, an industry-leading information technology value-added distributor, delivers managed Microsoft cloud services to companies and IT buyers in a simple platform to help transform their businesses and compete at a new level. AxizCloud, together with Microsoft, offers companies the infrastructure they need to sell through the Cloud Solutions Provider (CSP) platform, regardless of their size or level of competence. Microsoft Cloud Solutions Provider is a new licensing model optimised for cloud, enabling resellers like Axiz to invest in their customer relationships and customers to focus on their core business processes. The excellent partnership between Axiz and Microsoft also provides customers with support and industry-leading bundled solutions. These bundled solutions include three of Microsoft’s most popular products – Office 365, Dynamics 365, and Azure. AxizCloud further provide a robust level of support – so partners can focus on their customer offerings, while getting to market quicker with a lower capital investment. Axiz makes all of that investment for the partner on behalf of their customers. In addition to cloud solutions and support, Axiz offers customers a single, straightforward bill for all the cloud services consumed through their portal. Axiz has a Microsoft focused team of experts to assist all partners and their customers on their Cloud journey. Axiz is the proud winner of the Cloud Solutions Aggregator – Indirect Partner of the Year Award 2017. The Microsoft Partner Network 2017 Awards recognises partners in South Africa which have excelled in delivering Microsoft solutions over Microsoft’s fiscal year (FY17). “We have focused a lot of energy into building the Cloud Solutions Provider business and driving awareness of the benefits of the Microsoft Cloud Solutions available to our partners, so we are very happy to see our efforts pay off. This is the third year in a row Axiz has been acknowledged for our Cloud efforts by this vendor,” said Traci Maynard, Microsoft Executive, Axiz. For more information about the Cloud Solution offerings available from Axiz, contact the Cloud Solutions Provider team on MicrosoftCSP@axiz.com or visit the Axiz website. This article was published in partnership with Axiz.