Following Westcon-Comstor’s vendor partner Ruckus Networks and ARRIS company’s rapid expansion over recent years, customers in Sub-Saharan Africa can now enjoy access to a full remit of wired and wireless technologies, including the Ruckus Wireless and ICX Switch products and technologies. Today the vertical markets Ruckus targets around the globe span hospitality, education, government, service providers, multi-dwelling / tenant units, sports / entertainment venues, and transportation centres, to name but a few. In addition, with its leadership in LTE, Ruckus is opening opportunities for resellers to promote converged Wi-Fi and LTE solutions that leverage common cloud-based control and management capabilities from Ruckus. “As a preferred distributor of Ruckus in Sub-Saharan Africa we have established a network of superior resellers, developed strong in-house skills to support its solutions, and continue to identify key opportunities for Ruckus on the continent,” says Andries Janse van Rensburg, Channel Manager Ruckus at Westcon-Comstor Sub-Saharan Africa. “The Ruckus portfolio is so broad that it is hard to define a simple application for it. Customers who have turned to Ruckus return time and again and they continue to adapt the use of its technology to create memorable customer experiences every time.” The Ruckus portfolio available from Westcon-Comstor includes its Software and SaaS technologies that includes location services and network analytics, system management and control, access points for indoor and outdoor, as well as switches and the Ruckus IoT Suite. Today Ruckus helps customers with use cases that extend: Internet of Things (IoT), location services, multi-Gigabit access, physical security, secure onboarding, Wi-Fi roaming (hotspot 2.0), Wi-Fi calling and private LTE. “Ruckus is a 100% indirect company that is fully committed to the channel, working with Westcon-Comstor we are striving to better help customers on the African continent, by bringing them affordable, superior wired and wireless networking technologies,” states Bruce Pitso, Distribution Manager for Sub Saharan Africa at Ruckus. “In our time servicing the continent we have seen that Ruckus is an ideal alternative for African companies, because of the versatility, flexibility, cost effectiveness and accessibility of our solutions.” This article was published in partnership with Westcon-Comstor.