Capitec Bank CIO Wim De Bruyn’s life changed when his uncle bought an Apple //e for his business when was 8 years old. He was fascinated by the computer and what it could do, and this was the main reason why De Bruin moved into IT. “There were a couple of games on the computer, but I found the computer programming training software it had, called Logo, much more interesting,” he said. In Logo, you could program a turtle to move forward and turn left or right, leaving a line on the screen where ever the turtle walked. “I would spend countless hours on Logo and ultimately became hooked on programming. My uncle convinced my parents to buy me my first computer, which I am very grateful for.” De Bruyn studied computer science at the University of Johannesburg, and after his studies worked as a software developer for the South African Futures Exchange. “We only had three people in the IT department. I did a bit of everything, from software development to managing the network and installing PCs,” he said. “It is also where I started learning about financial markets and banking. Initially, I was working part-time while completing my degree, and was paid around R9.50 an hour.” As a banking executive, De Bruyn does not get much time to use his programming abilities to solve complicated problems, which he misses. “I loved being able to work with my fellow programmers to bounce ideas off of and being able to learn new techniques from each other,” he said. Fortunately, his son and daughter are learning to program as part of their studies, which gives him an opportunity to still be involved in basic software development. De Bruyn got a lucky break early in his career by working on and solving a problem his CFO at the time was worried about, and this gave him more visibility. “I was also lucky to work with a very smart mentor in those early days, and then with two other excellent mentors later in my career,” he said. He was promoted early on in his career, which in hindsight he thinks was too early – as he did not have the right grounding for the responsibility. “My readiness for being a CIO only improved after I spent about three years outside of the IT department, which gave me a much better commercial and business mindset,” said De Bruyn. “When I moved back into IT, I was better equipped to be a CIO. Capitec gives me a great opportunity to continue to learn, as there are always new initiatives we are busy with.” De Bruyn said he is also very proud of the level of technological competence and smart people working at Capitec. “It’s the best technology team I have worked with so far,” he said. “We are a small team compared to other banks, so we have to compete by delivering software and running our systems smarter than our competitors with similar market shares.” De Bruyn recalls a particularly big blunder when he was at SAFEX, where he was responsible for almost everything – including managing the infrastructure and writing software. “I could work directly in the production environment as a result,” he said. One evening he was doing production support and he accidentally deleted a big part of the production database. “I thought it would be fine because I would just restore it from a backup. To my horror, I discovered that no backups had been running for the last few weeks,” he said. “I was really worried that the exchange would not be able to operate the next day, or even worse, that the data was completely lost.” He worked through the night and fortunately found a copy of the database. “That incident taught me a big lesson in the importance of having multiple backups.”  Linux, Windows, or macOS? Windows at work. macOS at home. Which smartphone do you use? iPhone. Which laptop do you use? MacBook Pro. What is the best gadget you have ever bought? Amazon Echo. What Internet connection do you have at home? 100Mbps FTTH. For gaming: PC, PS4, or Xbox? PC. What is your favourite game? Rise of Nations. What is the best investment you have ever made? Capitec. What is the worst investment you have ever made? Buying an expensive car. What is the best business or IT book you have ever read? The Phoenix Project – A Novel about IT, DevOps, and Helping Your Business Win.