A personal loan is an easy and affordable way to make the seemingly-impossible, possible. From paying an unexpected medical bill, doing home repairs or improvements, furthering your or a family member’s education, purchasing a second-hand car, repairing appliances, or even consolidating multiple debts – a personal loan can be a stepping stone to a better life. Although personal loans can be a great lifestyle convenience, there are a few things customers need to look out for when taking one. Charged fees are inevitable when taking out a personal loan, whether it is through a financial institution or through a loan shark. However, financial institutions offer services to improve the lives of their customers, whereas unauthorised loan providers or ‘loan sharks’ simply exploit customers for their own financial gain. Unauthorised loan providers often prey on the desperate, offering a “good” deal with many hidden charges and enormous interest rates. Financial institutions like Standard Bank offer personal loans at much lower interest rates, acting in the interest of the customer. Interest rates offered by financial institutions can be either fixed or variable, however, most personal loans are offered at a fixed interest rate. A fixed interest rate is one that is agreed upon upfront and will not change for the duration of the loan period, while a variable interest rate means that interest and monthly repayments can go up or down as the prime rate changes. Customers also need to consider the impact their credit score will have on the interest rate, and need to be aware that a better credit score and higher income may secure their chances for a better rate. Customers also need to be cognisant of the loan term, which implies how much time is attributed to repay the loan. A short-term loan refers to one that is scheduled to be repaid in less than a year, and is a good option for customers who don’t qualify for line of credit from a bank. Obtaining a long-term loan means customers can pay off their debt over a time frame exceeding one year. Long-term personal loans can be a powerful consolidation tool for high-interest debts, as this may help customers to get on stronger financial footing. As with other forms of insurance, personal loan insurance offers coverage to customers in times of need. Personal loan insurance is generally offered to cover outstanding loan debt in the event of retrenchment, death, critical illness, or disability. This means the family won’t have to take on the extra financial burden in an unexpected situation. Financial institutions may stipulate exclusions, limits, and conditions – such as a case of a voluntary resignation or acceptance of a voluntary redundancy – in which case a customer won’t be covered. A personal loan from Standard Bank offers great benefits from a well-established and trusted financial institution. When applying for a personal loan from Standard Bank, customers will be offered a personalised interest rate for the right loan amount, ensuring that the customer maintains a good credit record. Customers can easily apply online and find out how much they qualify for. Standard Bank also offers fast access, while paying funds straight into the customer’s bank account. Standard Bank’s personal loan offering is also flexible, allowing customers to apply for an increase in the loan amount, should the need arise, and there are no early termination fees should the customer choose to pay off their loan sooner. With Standard Bank, customers can choose the option to insure their loan, so whatever is owed can be settled in the event of disability, dread disease, or death. Standard Bank also offers a calculator, which is an effective tool to determine how much the individual’s personal loan repayments will be. To find out how much you qualify for on a new or existing loan, visit the Standard Bank website. This article was published in partnership with Standard Bank.