Huawei recently launched its new Honor smartphones in South Africa, which include the powerful Honor 7X. The Honor 7X is a mid-range device with an impressive set of features and hardware specifications. Features like an 18:9 FullView display and high-resolution dual-lens camera place the Honor 7X in the same league as many flagship smartphones, but its retail price remains extremely attractive compared to top-end devices. The Honor lineup is therefore set to take on the mid-range market in South Africa, and for users who need a powerful and feature-rich device at a great price, the Honor 7X is a perfect fit.  Within its stylish chassis, the Honor 7X boasts flagship-grade hardware, including 4GB of RAM and 64GB of internal storage. A HiSilicon Kirin 659 processor powers the device, which also sports a 3,340mAh battery for extended operating time. The device also has a high-resolution IPS LCD display, which provides a crystal-clear and bright picture that stands up to direct sunlight and wide viewing angles. This selection of hardware paired with its well-designed chassis – available in a variety of colours – makes the Honor 7X feel and function as a flagship smartphone. The specifications of the Honor 7X are below.  While the Honor 7X is priced as a mid-range device, it exceeds its competition in terms of flagship features and design. With its FullView 2.5D glass display, aluminium frame, and rounded edges, the Honor 7X is both easy to hold and impressive to look at. This is complemented by software features that enhance the experience of using the Honor 7X, including a One-Key Screen Split function for a fast multi-management experience. This feature allows users to run two applications on the Honor 7X’s display simultaneously, letting users read and respond to their WhatsApp messages while keeping up to date with the latest news through the Internet browser, for example. Huawei has not forgotten about the device’s camera, either, and capturing beautiful portrait shots is a cinch with the Honor 7X’s dual-lens camera system and ultra-fast focus time. Using PDAF fast auto-focus and updated picture algorithm, the device allows users to take great shots quickly and with minimal effort. Additionally, the camera’s Portrait Mode makes capturing a professional and artistic picture easy, with the automatic application of image enhancements and lighting settings. This is all tied together in the Honor 7X with EMUI 8.0, based on Google’s Android 8.0 operating system. Android 8.0 offers the latest software features, such as inline notification interactions and improved power efficiency, while EMUI is renowned for its clean and easy-to-use interface. The Honor 7X is a powerful and stylish device with an attractive price point, making it a strong contender for the throne in the land of affordable smartphones.  This article was published in partnership with Huawei.