50% of smartphone users worldwide have experienced a cracked screen, and the demand for affordable and effective screen refurbishment services is on the rise. OCAmaster is the international leader in screen refurbishment equipment and replacement glass, and recently entered the South African market. OCAmaster SA is part of a global network of distributors and supplies patented airbag lamination technology in their K6 Edge and Xpert machines. Along with OCAmaster replacement glass, this innovative, cost-effective technology re-laminates a device as new, saving consumers money and reducing e-waste while keeping the original devices screen. The modular refurbishment technology is a profitable business opportunity for local companies looking to expand, and when buying this specialised technology, a local partner offering support is essential for its successful deployment. OCAmaster SA offers this in the security of a warranty, personalised technical support, face-to-face implementation training and hands on system set up. In addition to this service, OCAMaster SA has additional value offerings. The most recent business to partner with OCAmaster SA is SmartphoneER, a Cape Town-based smartphone repair company. Specialising in Apple, Samsung, Huawei smartphones and IPads, they wanted to expand their business offerings and acquired the screen refurbishment equipment. Their online booking system offers national mobile device collection and deliveries, which is a substantial timesaver for their individual and industry clients. With their new equipment from OCAmaster, they can now provide competitive repair costs that saves their customers money and in turn offer the highest quality. SmartphoneER’s partnership with OCAmaster SA has increased their overall client base and led to further expansion in their business. Patrick Skeates Director of OCAmaster SA’s says the business beneficial and consumer driven technology also saves insurance companies thousands on their claims and ensures product offerings and pricing that benefits all their clients’ needs. For more information, visit the OCAmaster website, or the OCAmaster South Africa facebook page or mail us on info@ocamaster.co.za. This article was published in partnership with OCAmaster.