When South African Post Office CEO Mark Barnes took the reins three years ago, he said ecommerce will be a big revenue driver for the company in the future. In 2016, Barnes said the Post Office’s extensive reach made it a logical parcel delivery partner for online shops. He added that initiatives were underway to capture a bigger slice of the South African online shopping logistics pie. While Barnes was correct that the Post Office can be a great online shopping delivery player, there is a big problem: it cannot deliver packages on time. In fact, the Post Office not only struggles to deliver packages in a timely manner, parcels often get lost and users cannot track where their deliveries are. After MyBroadband’s recent investigation into the Post Office’s poor delivery standards, we received many complaints of packages which have not been delivered months after they were sent. The Post Office simply put their head in the sand, leaving its clients frustrated without any communication as to when, and even if, their package will be delivered. Good news is that there is a great alternative to the Post Office for South African online shops – Pargo. Pargo is a smart logistics company that enables South African ecommerce players, such as OneDayOny, The Foschini Group, Faithful to Nature, Cape Union Mart, Raru, HomeChoice, FNB and more, to use their network of thousands of Pargo pickup points throughout the country. Pargo has pickup points in almost every town in South Africa, which means it provides a true alternative to the Post Office. Pargo also tracks deliveries to a customer’s nearest pickup point and notifies them when they are ready for collection. Through its advanced tracking system, Pargo makes sure there are no missed deliveries, delays, or disappointments. Users can easily track their parcels through the company’s online portal 24-hours per day. “From the second your order leaves the warehouse or the drop-off point to the minute it arrives in your neighbourhood, every move of your parcel is recorded,” Pargo said. Throughout the parcel’s journey users will be updated about the progress with several reminders via email and mobile. What makes the service particularly suitable for ecommerce businesses is its ease-of-integration into existing online shops. Ecommerce businesses can simply add the Pargo option to their check-out page by installing the company’s free plug-in. The free plug-ins are available for all popular online commerce platforms, including WooCommerce, Prestashop, Opencart, Shopify, Magento, and Bidorbuy. With service guarantees and an average delivery time of between 2 and 5 days across South Africa, Pargo is a perfect solution for anyone looking for an alternative to the SA Post Office.