Whether you are an IT enthusiast looking for a robust network-attached storage solution you can tether to your home network, or a medium-sized business seeking a secure way to store and backing up sensitive files while still allowing room for growth, a combination of our Synology’s DiskStation DS918+ and our Active Backup for Business application is an excellent choice. Synology’s software suite and DiskStation Manager (DSM) tool allows you to easily set up, maintain and monitor access to the NAS. The DSM environment is highly secure, and users can prevent unauthorised access by enabling two-factor authentication on attempted logins to the service. If you are adding the DiskStation DS918+ NAS to an existing collection of Synology network-attached storage devices, you can easily synchronise and organise files across all of your devices from the Cloud Station Suite. The NAS provides an array of powerful features, including a built-in AES-NI encryption engine which allows you to securely read and write from the network-attached storage without fear that your data will be intercepted. Synology’s DiskStation DS918+ features four 3.5-inch hard drive bays in addition to two NVMe drive slots underneath its chassis. This configuration allows for up to tens of terabytes of HDD storage in addition to quick-access NVMe SSDs, which can be used for fast system cache creation. Users can also purchase the DX517 expansion unit if they require even more storage capacity.  Courtesy of its NAS hardware, Synology has been considered to be a trusted brand within the enterprise and storage space for almost two decades now. The company’s new Active Backup for Business package only serves to cement that feat. The software package allows businesses to centrally protect data scattered across computers, physical servers, virtual machines and file servers. Whether you’re running a small or medium-sized company, Active Backup for Business enhances your existing disaster recovery capabilities and IT resilience. In Active Backup for Business, creating a VMware backup task is straightforward. First, you need to enter your vSphere credentials without installing any agents in vCenter.  For IT admins, it’s just as easy to deploy backup tasks for Windows PC or Windows Server through a custom template. The pre-defined backup policy is automatically applied to a client as soon as it logs in to the agent, so there is no need to configure each client individually. Integration with Microsoft AD server saves additional efforts.  After setting up backup tasks, you can monitor the status of all tasks, whether for servers, virtual machines, or PCs, from one console.  In the event of the unexpected, businesses can restore entire VMs in minutes with several restore options, such as Instant Restore to VMware, Full VM restore, or Instant Restore to Synology Virtual Machine Manager (VMM). The combination of Synology’s DS918+ and Active Backup Suite is the ultimate backup solution for business owners and enterprises. It servers an efficient and highly-secure server for the clients while maintaining its sleek and minimal form factor. This article was published in partnership with Synology.