An investigation by Superlinear reveals political influence by pro-EFF, pro-Radical Economic Transformation, and the International Far Right groups on social media. Superlinear is run by data scientist Kyle Findlay, who publishes his findings on South African society on the website. In his latest investigation Findlay looked at political interference through Twitter which occurred between 2014 and 2018. This was achieved through assessing how many accounts Twitter were suspended across 28 datasets relating to politics, social unrest, and race relations in South Africa. The data was then used to “quantify the extent of suspicious activity and to generate some hypotheses around who might be involved and what their agendas are”. Findlay highlighted that there is no way of knowing whether the users that were retweeted by suspended authors knew that their tweets were being artificially boosted. “Just because an author was retweeted by many suspended accounts does not mean that they were in on the game,” he said. “Suspended accounts could have retweeted them simply because their content aligned with the bad actors’ agendas.” Findlay found that there are three main groups which were suspended for suspicious activity by Twitter: According to the research there are three types of bad actors which drive discussions of propaganda: The investigation found that between 1% and 9% of Twitter posts were authored by suspended users in each dataset. “When we add in retweets of suspended authors’ tweets, their footprints ranged from 2% to 18% of tweets in a given dataset,” Findlay said. “While a minority in each case, these could have been enough to sway the tide of conversation as in the case of the Guptabots and the Russian IRA sock puppet accounts.” The charts below show the interference by suspended and deleted Twitter accounts on the topics which were investigated.   According to the research, “it is very clear that there has been substantial interference within South African politics”. His findings are summarised below. “This investigation shows that there is definitely interference in South African politics on Twitter, both by local and international actors,” Findlay said. “However, the interference does not yet appear to be on the scale experienced in some countries.” Read the full analysis here.