Cryptocurrency projects are still popping up regularly, with many investors keeping an eye on burgeoning ICOs and startups in the blockchain space. A new growing trend in the cryptocurrency industry is the development of “stablecoins” – cryptocurrencies which remain stable in relation to conventional fiat currency or assets. A recent report published by wallet provider Blockchain found that the number of stablecoin projects increased drastically in the last 18 months, with more than 50 in development globally. Due to the constant volatility of the cryptocurrency market, it can be difficult to use cryptocurrencies as a transactional currency. Stablecoins aim to solve this problem by creating cryptocurrencies which peg their value to fiat currency like the US dollar, or to the price of a physical asset like gold. A stablecoin is a cryptocurrency backed by an asset. These currencies can either be reserve-backed or algorithmic. Reserve-backed currencies are backed by real assets while algorithmic stablecoins rely on complex software rules that match supply and demand to produce a cryptocurrency which retains a relatively stable price. The most widely-adopted example of a stablecoin is Tether (USDT), a cryptocurrency where each digital token is supposedly backed by a physical US dollar – held by the Tether corporation. Tether fell under serious scrutiny from the cryptocurrency community when reports surfaced that the Tether company was printing new tokens to manipulate the price of major cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin and Ethereum, however. Many continued to use the token, though, as a dollar-pegged cryptocurrency has a number of important advantages for both investors and traders. Stablecoins like Tether can be a popular way for investors to eliminate their exposure to volatility and protect their investment when the market takes a downward turn. As the stable cryptocurrencies are not fiat, they can also be exchanged for other cryptocurrencies without the hassle of going through a fiat-to-crypto exchange. Additionally, stablecoins facilitate quick transactions and are easily moveable – useful for online purchases. The number of stablecoin projects is growing at a rapid pace, with startups aiming to prove their technology for building a stable and accessible cryptocurrency. Earlier this year, MakerDAO launched its Dai stablecoin, which is pegged to the value of the US dollar but is backed by a pool of Ethereum and built on the Ethereum blockchain. This token functions as a stable ERC-20 token with a value similar to that of the US dollar, and is transactable to any Ethereum address. More adventurous stablecoin projects have been launched recently, including a cryptocurrency which is backed by seven metals. Tiberius Coin was created by Swiss asset manager Tiberius Group, and its value holds close to that of the price of a basket of copper, aluminum, nickel, cobalt, tin, gold, and platinum. This cryptocurrency is aimed at investors, offering a stable basket of metals used in a variety of industries. The technology around building stable cryptocurrencies is still in its infancy, especially when it comes to stablecoins which are regulated by algorithms – and there is still a long way to go before the required liquidity and infrastructure is present to enable widespread adoption. <span data-mce-type="bookmark" style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;" class="mce_SELRES_start">﻿</span>