Outa recently stated that it was possible that the Gupta family influenced decision makers in the appointment of Broadband Infraco’s CEO in 2012. The organisation made this statement in its submission to the judicial committee of inquiry into state capture. Outa focused on two points in its submission – Broadband Infraco’s partnership with T-Systems and the appointment of Puleng Sejanamane as Broadband Infraco CEO. T-Systems has responded to Outa’s submission, stating that it extensively addressed issues regarding its business with Transnet and Broadband Infraco in a public web page on its site. It also denied allegations made in the Outa submission. T-Systems stated that it intended to partner with Broadband Infraco in 2013, but was unsuccessful in its tender for the Transnet Network RFP and subsequently did not partner with the company. Regarding the extension of T-Systems’ contract which earned it an additional R1.3 billion, T-Systems stated that Transnet was legally entitled to extend the contract. “The contract provided for a 2-year extension, and the additional revenue was the result of increase in scope requested by Transnet,” T-Systems said. T-Systems also stated that it participated in a Transnet RFP in 2016 and won the contract through an open tender process. “In March 2017, we received a “Letter of Intent” from Transnet indicating that we were the preferred bidder and that Transnet wanted to start contract negotiations,” T-Systems said. “We followed due process throughout and strongly believe the contract was awarded to T-Systems through a fair open process, based on our value proposition.” However, in early August 2017, T-Systems received a letter from Transnet indicating that it intended to rescind the contract and award it to a rival bidder. Following the opposition of Transnet’s court proceedings to award the contract to a rival bidder, T-Systems agreed to cooperate with Transnet’s new board in abiding by their decision to award the contract to the rival bidder. “T-Systems contested the court application on legitimate grounds, however we wish to cooperate with Transnet’s new board and enable both organisations to focus on their respective business strategies and move forward,” the company said. T-Systems also touched on when it began working with Sechaba Computer Systems from 2011 through a “body shipping” contract, and the how relationship developed over time. “At the time of entering into contracts with Sechaba, T-Systems was not aware of the allegations raised in the media,” the company said. “Sechaba was an established ICT provider that worked with other established IT companies.” T-Systems understood that Sechaba was a family owned business, run by Krisen Naidoo and majority-owned by Thavagee Gooroocharan. This information was confirmed by the company again in 2017. “Ultimate beneficial ownership information is not publicly available in South Africa and we are reliant on the information we obtained from publicly available company search platforms such as the CIPC database as well as our own enquiries with Sechaba,” T-Systems stated. “Based on T-Systems due diligence and information provided by Sechaba, there was no indication that Sechaba was a Gupta owned or linked company.”