Black Friday has become the biggest online shopping day in South Africa, with online retailers offering thousands of great deals to attract consumers. Black Friday takes place on the day after Thanksgiving Day in the United States, which is always the fourth Thursday of November. It is regarded as the start of the Christmas shopping season in the United States, and many retailers open very early and offer promotional sales. In recent years, many South African retailers have joined their American counterparts in offering big savings on a wide range of products on Black Friday. While brick-and-mortar stores like Checkers have embraced Black Friday, online stores in South Africa are where most of the action takes place. This year, Black Friday falls on 23 November, and South African consumers can expect even bigger promotions than last year from online stores. MyBroadband asked major retailers what consumers can expect from them for Black Friday 2018 – here are their answers. Julie-Anne Walsh, chief marketing officer of Takealot, told MyBroadband that they intend to go even bigger on Black Friday this year. “Takealot will be offering amazing discounts on thousands of products over a five-day period,” said Walsh. Takealot’s Blue Dot Sale will start at 00:01 on Black Friday, and will continue over that weekend and Cyber Monday, concluding with Takealot Tuesday. “We will add hundreds of new deals every day over the five-day period, so shoppers will regularly find amazing new sale items,” said Walsh. “Customers can expect discounts on everything from cellphones and laptops, to TVs, kitchen appliances, beauty ranges, toys, baby products, gaming, liquor and much more.” In addition, shoppers using the Takealot app will be able to shop select, app-only Blue Dot deals earlier in the week of Black Friday.  Raru cofounder Neil Smith said they are planning great specials for Black Friday 2018. “We would look to offer discounts ranging between 30-80% off from the normal price points,” said Smith.  MultiChoice said it is excited about Black Friday and will be offering a number of specials. “We want to keep the details of our specials as a surprise, to be revealed on Black Friday. We invite customers to keep an eye on DStv.com on the day for details,” MultiChoice said.  Superbalist.com said it will be taking part in Black Friday 2018 with a four-day mega sale from Friday 23 to Monday 26 November. “The sale is set to be bigger than ever and will include major discounts on leading brands across a wide variety of categories from women and menswear to kids, teens, maternity, sports, plus size, and home. There will be no bigger fashion Black Friday in South Africa,” the company told MyBroadband.  Asgar Mahomed, managing director for Esquire, told MyBroadband that they will be offering great deals during their “Rainbow Week” between 19 November and 23 November. Esquire was the first distribution company in South Africa to start with Black Friday back in 2012, and the following year it changed it to Rainbow Weekend. For the last 5 years, Esquire has been running Rainbow Weeks, which Mahomed said has been an absolute success. This year, Esquire will also include its 500 virtual reseller network (VRN) ecommerce clients for its Rainbow Week promotions. “There will be some really good deals as we have been preparing for this since June of this year,” Mahomed said. “Esquire’s Rainbow Week is here to stay, and we guarantee that with these good deals, our resellers and consumers will get really good value for money.”  Telkom spokesperson Noma Faku told MyBroadband that Telkom will be offering Black Friday specials this year.  Game said it will offer “phenomenal specials” in every merchandise category at all its 145 stores in South Africa and Africa. Most Game stores will open several hours earlier than normal – some as early as midnight on 22 November – to accommodate the rush.  The iStore said it will be participating in Black Friday this year, and it will have a range of Apple products and accessories on sale.  Wantitall CEO Justin Drennan said they will offer Black Friday deals. However, instead of just offering discounts on products available from local retailers, they will offer unique products on the day.  Emma Verhoeven, head of brand and communications at Travelstart, told MyBroadband that they will offer “awesome Black Friday domestic and international travel specials that won’t disappoint”. “Although we cannot reveal what exactly will be on sale just yet, we can assure you that we’re hard at work procuring some incredible, exclusive flight and accommodation specials,” Verhoeven said. “There will be insanely low fares to be snatched up to the top and trending destinations we know that South Africans love.” 