Wasting time and money on document- and print-related inefficiencies should be the last priority for any company that isn’t a print provider. But as it can impact workflow and operationality, many companies waste a significant amount of time and money on this. If this is you and you are looking for ways to reduce printing costs and optimise the fleet without compromising sensitive data, HP’s line of A3 multifunction printers (MFPs) could be for you. With fewer parts for less maintenance and predictive service, offering the capability to focus on your business to make the most of it, the suite of MFPs is a true upgrade from traditional copiers. It offers quality and reliability with industry-leading serviceability, the world’s most secure printing, professional yet affordable colour, and extensive finishing options to transform your business. Its built-in technology also anticipates problems, schedules maintenance, and ensures that your printer is consistently up and running. Breakthrough, cloud-based HP Smart Device Services (SDS) technology optimises service, as it dramatically reduces service costs, maximizes device uptime, and delivers measurable business results and an exceptional service experience to customers. Integrated into MPS Monitor, it also provides advanced monitoring and management capabilities on HP devices using Original HP supplies. On guard 24/7, HP MFPs automatically monitor threats, detect intrusions, validate operating software, and stop external attacks to keep your information secure. Since it’s not just about hacking a printer, but about hacking the business, HP Print Security isn’t only about securing your printer – it’s about helping to secure your entire network with real-time threat detection, automated monitoring, and built-in software validation that no one else offers. With incredible speed and incredible value, HP’s PageWide technology integrated into the HP A3 MFPs offer a whole new way to print. They provide low colour cost-per-page, allowing businesses to afford exceptional colour printing, while providing best-in-class print speeds. PageWide technology is also more sustainable – consuming up to one-seventh the energy of competing colour laser machines in the same class, while producing significantly less packaging waste associated with supplies and long-life consumables. Designed for maximum uptime, HP’s suite of A3 MFPs helps avoid pauses in productivity, so you can count on reliable results day in and day out. It improves accuracy and easily integrates with document workflow processes to give workgroups the speed they need. With a comprehensive portfolio of A3 printers that offer high-quality colour, plus flexible service and support, your business can adapt to a changing marketplace. Learn about HP’s next generation A3 suite of multifunction printers here. This article was published in partnership with HP.