Stores worldwide make use of Electronic Article Surveillance (EAS) systems to prevent shoplifting of merchandise. Special tags are affixed to merchandise, which are detected by systems situated at the exits of the store. An alarm is sounded when a tag is detected by the system, notifying store employees that someone is attempting to leave with a stolen item. The tags need to be removed or deactivated by the store at the point of purchase, which allows a customer to leave with the item without setting off the alarm system. Criminals are constantly working at finding new methods to bypass these security systems, however. These include simple methods such as breaking the tags and using foil-lined bags, and more complex methods such as the use of tag detachers or signal blockers. To combat this, EAS system manufacturers are constantly working at new developments for their tags and detection systems. To learn more about these circumvention methods and how to combat them, MyBroadband spoke to Stock Loss Prevention (SLP) Technologies. One of the more common methods that has been used is simply to remove or deactivate a security tag. Criminals will use various methods from physically cutting or breaking the tags off to bringing their own deactivators or detachers to remove or deactivate the tags before stealing the items. This has driven manufacturers – such as Dexilon, whose systems SLP solely distributes in South Africa – to constantly improve their systems. “There’s a myriad of devices and solutions for all different types of products that they steal – the more they steal, the more you have to look for something new to overcome their theft,” said SLP. This includes alarm systems within the tags that will sound when a tag is broken or cut, and detection systems within the posts at the store entrance that will sound an alarm if a detacher or deactivator is detected on a person entering the store. Another common method criminals are known to use to remove tags is by physically cutting a hole around the pin of the tag that is large enough to remove the tag from a clothing item. Security companies have thus increased the size and functionality of their tags to combat this. Increasing the size of the tags ensures that it is too large for the criminal to cut a hole in the item, as it will then ruin the item. “Ink tags” which release ink onto clothing when the tag is tampered with have also been developed. Similar to car remote jammers, criminals use signal jammers that are designed to block the acousto-magnetic (AM) or radio frequency (RF) signals that are used by the EAS systems. However, EAS systems now include jammer detectors that are able to pick up on the jamming signals, and can trigger an alarm that notifies a store clerk or manager that a jammer is being used on their system. “Our Dexilon systems have got something called a jammer alert, which will tell you if someone is trying to jam your system,” SLP said. Another method criminals use to steal merchandise – especially clothing – has been through the use of a foil-lined bag. The inside of a bag is lined with several layers of aluminium foil, which shields the tag from being detected by the detection posts at the store exits. Metal detectors have been incorporated into EAS systems, though, allowing the entrance posts to detect any metal objects that are brought through the entrance into the store. SLP said that the metal detectors in these systems are commonly calibrated to only detect metal with an area of or larger than an A4 page. This stops the detection of smaller metal objects, such as a smartphone or coins, from triggering the alarm whenever a customer enters a store. For products such as baby formula powder and coffee, criminals would commonly just steal the contents of the product by opening the container and pouring the contents into another container. This is used to circumvent specialised tags – called clamps – that are clamped around the bottom of the item. SLP told MyBroadband that the main reason criminals in South Africa will steal certain products, such as baby formula or alcohol, is to sell them to informal shops rather than for personal use. To combat this, manufacturers like Dexilon have developed specialised clamps that fit around the top of a container, essentially clamping the top of the container closed. This prevents the theft of the contents by ensuring the lid of the container cannot be opened without tampering with the clamp and setting off an alarm. 