With growing agility and flexibility on network access, businesses today require open and digitally transformed smart platforms that aid in the rapid adoption of the mobile, and smart, office. It’s about keeping up with the pace of technology or face the reality of stagnating. Yet, digitisation of the business makes IT infrastructures more complex and blurs the boundaries of the corporate perimeter – posing a massive security risk. The cyber-cautious decision maker knows that ‘open’ networks means business vulnerability and that technology opens the doors to cyber criminals. While businesses rush to keep up with rapid digital transformation demands, often very little consideration is given to broader corporate security needs and the requirements of endpoint protection – which is often the prime target and source for cyberattacks on business. The growing number of connected devices to a network is directly proportional to the growth of cybersecurity risks – due to the increase of uncontrolled endpoints. Business owners must therefore have sight and control of the potential risks that vulnerable endpoints can result in and ensure the necessary is being done to avoid cyber breaches. To this end, a company looking to secure itself against cyberthreats needs to have advanced cyber security tools that automatically control and manage the security of its entire workplace fleet. Tools such as robust antivirus solutions, systems management that can patch holes in applications, encryption tools to protect data and mobile device management for example, can go a long way in supporting a business’s security strategy around protecting endpoints. However, they can also create complexity – due to multiple policy sets and systems required to manage each tool. And complexity is security’s number 1 enemy. Kaspersky Lab’s Endpoint Security for Business solution deals with this challenge while providing businesses of any size, which are on a digital journey, with Next-Generation Security for effective protection. In a single solution with one easy-to-use management console, this solution offers: Simply put, Kaspersky Endpoint Security for Business uses a combination of advanced technologies with a multi-layered approach that allows a perfect balance between performance and efficient endpoint protection – while removing any possible complexities. Kaspersky Lab continually demonstrates excellence in having the highest detection rates in the industry, which has been spoken for in various independent tests. For more information, please visit the Kaspersky Lab website. This article was published in partnership with Kaspersky Lab.