Huawei launched its new Mate 20 X smartphone this week, which boasts a massive 7.2-inch bezel-less display and exceptional performance. After introducing the device, Huawei CEO Richard Yu called it the “best portable gaming machine” on the market – including beating the Nintendo Switch. Like the Mate 20 Pro, the Huawei Mate 20 X is powered by the company’s 7nm Kirin 980 processor. The Kirin 980 delivers much higher performance than previous-generation 10nm chips, and it includes a dual neural processing unit (NPU) system for AI applications. The most striking feature of the new device is its impressive 2,244 x 1,080 OLED display, which is ideal for gamers and stretches across almost the entire front surface of the device. Huawei has also crammed a 5,000mAh battery into the Mate 20 X’s chassis, and the device features graphene film cooling technology to keep its temperature low under heavy gaming workloads. Smartphone gamers would benefit greatly from a number of the features delivered by the Mate 20 X, the most obvious of which is its large display. The Kirin 980 chipset that powers the device also supports the company’s GPU Turbo technology, which enhances gameplay performance and improves power efficiency while gaming. Huawei is embracing the gaming applications of the device and is even producing a gamepad, which attaches to the left-hand side of the massive smartphone. This gamepad sports a d-pad and a thumb stick, removing the need to use touch controls for movement in various games. The Huawei Mate 20 X with 6GB of RAM and 128GB of internal storage will be priced at €899, and will be available on 26 October 2018. Huawei has not stated whether the Mate 20 X will be available in South Africa.  In addition to the Mate 20 Pro, Huawei also announced a standard Mate 20 device, which caters to those who want a bezel-less display but do not require the gaming-centric features of the massive Mate 20 X. The most notable omission on the Mate 20 is that it does not have the array of front-facing sensors included on the Mate 20 Pro. Instead, the device has a teardrop-shaped notch at the top, and it has a standard IPS LCD display instead of the OLED panel featured on the Pro model. The Mate 20 is also powered by the HiSilicon Kirin 980, and boasts a triple-lens Leica camera system on the rear. The Huawei Mate 20 will be available with 4GB of RAM for €799, and 6GB of RAM for €849. Both the Mate 20 X and Mate 20 were announced at Huawei’s recent media event in London, which focused around the launch of the high-end Mate 20 Pro device. 