Huawei has taken the South African smartphone market by storm in recent years. The Mate 20 Pro is a worthy addition to Huawei’s ever-growing range of high-quality devices available to South African consumers. Powered by Huawei’s new 7nm Kirin 980 chipset, the Mate 20 Pro is Huawei’s answer to high-end devices like the Galaxy Note 9 and iPhone Xs Max. Here’s why the Mate 20 Pro should be your smartphone of choice. The Mate 20 Pro’s new Leica Triple Camera utilises AI to ensure that you are provided with a superior photography experience. The triple camera includes a 40MP Wide Angle Lens (f/1.8 aperture), a 20MP Ultra Wide Angle Lens (f/2.2 aperture), and an 8MP Telephoto lens (f/2.4 aperture). Combined, these three lenses support autofocus, which includes laser, phase and contrast focus. Additionally, they support Huawei’s AI Image Stabilisation (AIS) software that utilises AI to ensure you get the best out of your camera. The 20MP Ultra Wide Angle Lens is a new addition and is perfect for landscape photos and macro shots due to its ability to frame vast areas. The Mate 20 Pro sports a beautiful 6.4-inch 2K OLED display that will make using your smartphone a pleasure. Whether you’re admiring your photos or watching movies, the images will be crisp and clear. The screen incorporates 3D glass with smooth curves to ensure that the Mate 20 Pro is one of the most attractive smartphones on the market. The Mate 20 Pro also offers IP68 rated water and dust resistance, meaning that you don’t need to fear taking your smartphone on your adventures. AI is one of the most exciting tech innovations in recent times. The Mate 20 Pro is packed with AI capabilities and functions. A fun option for parents is the 3D Depth Sensing Camera, which allows you to scan a toy and make it come to life on your screen. This feature allows you to take photos with the toy, as well as making it move and dance on your desk. *Note that 3D scanning will be activated with a software update at the end of October 2018. The AI Portrait Colour feature will appeal to videographers. It detects humans and allows you to grey out features around them – ensuring that the person is the focal point of your video. This feature also allows you to edit your films with a range of filters – including Fresh, Vintage, Background Blur and Suspense – in real time. The Mate 20 Pro can even help you to identify the number of calories in your food simply by pointing your device at your meal. These powerful features require an equally powerful battery – and the Mate 20 Pro delivers. A massive 4,200 mAh battery will keep your smartphone running for long periods of time, and an AI power management system will ensure that this battery life is used optimally. Due to having such a large battery, the Mate 20 Pro offers a wireless reverse charge functionality. This allows you to charge another compatible device with your Mate 20 Pro simply by placing the two devices back-to-back. You’ll be everyone’s best friend when their devices are running out of battery. The Mate 20 Pro the smartest device Huawei has ever developed. You would imagine that a device of such quality would be exorbitantly priced, but the Mate 20 Pro maintains Huawei’s reputation of offering incredible value for money. You can get your hands on the Mate 20 Pro for just R18,999 – an absolute bargain considering the quality of this device. The device will start shipping in South Africa from 31 October 2018, and can now be pre-ordered from Huawei’s dedicated promotion page. Those who pre-order before 31 October, will receive a free Huawei Watch GT valued at R5,499 along with the smartphone. This special offer is only available to the first 500 customers who place successful pre-orders. The Huawei Mate 20 Pro will also be available on 24-month contracts from Vodacom, MTN, Cell C, and Telkom. Learn more about the Mate 20 Pro on Huawei’s website. This article was published in partnership with Huawei.