The EU recently rolled out new laws for business about conforming to new security standards – the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). These regulations specify how data must be used and processed within a company. To protect clients, data must be kept private and stored securely, as in the case of a data leak companies will face consequences – such as a fine or having to close its doors. Innovo Networks, a high touch business focused on voice, data, and cloud, is a GDPR-regulated company that follows the new procedures to protect clients and customers’ personal data. By following highly secure internal processes, Innovo offers the capability of securely arming and protecting the business from any threat or cyberattack – allowing organisations to conform to GDPR standards. Additionally, Innovo helps organisations respond to threats swiftly to help protect data, so organisations can effectively keep up with the constant barrage of cyberattacks. The first steps in securing the face of your business – the website – includes a risk assessment to identify the main threats to the network, and penetration testing. Innovo’s risk assessment includes assessing communications and ecommerce failure, loss of confidential information, mail, DNS, firewalls, passwords, FTP, IIS, web servers, and other systems. Thereafter, penetration testing and incident response services help you identify cybersecurity weaknesses and prepare your response to a potential cyberthreat. With innovative solutions like WebArx, Innovo provides a 24/7, real-time security event management and monitoring, powerful correlation, and threat analysis of your most critical assets for your website. Combined with their managed service offerings, Innovo can then provide notification of known attacks and threats before they reach you, and help your organisation develop a better response to cyberthreats. Along with penetration testing, Innovo offers secure end-point protection, along with email management, web app assessments, and the ultimate firewalls for any type of business. “We strive to arm businesses with the best-in-class, industry-leading cybersecurity solutions at the most affordable pricing option,” said Innovo Networks. “After our tests, there will be no gaps or loopholes that hackers can feed on to destroy the site and steal personal data from either the company, employees or customers.” For more information, visit the Innovo Networks website. This article was published in partnership with Innovo Networks.