The expected demise of SMS messaging has been on the cards for several years now.  Since the introduction of instant messaging apps such as Mxit in 2005 and the later dominance of WhatsApp, Telegram and Facebook Messenger industry experts have predicted doom and gloom with regards to messaging revenue for mobile operators. This scenario has played true when it comes to peer-to-peer (P2P) messaging using SMS, however there has been vast growth in the application-to-person messaging (A2P) sector with 2017’s $62 billion global market expected to grow to $86 billion by 2025.  This growth is primarily driven by banking, financial services, insurance, travel, health care and marketing. A2P SMS messaging has evolved considerably from a plain text message sent from a website, to platforms that allow various value-added-services to be built into the messages.  Leading providers allow you to add images, gifs, video and pdf’s to your message by embedding URLs into the messages. These platforms provide you with detailed reporting and insight into your campaigns by tracking who viewed these links and how many times they shared them.  The messages are displayed in the inbox with a preview of the content they are linking to making these messages far more interactive towards a customer. These richer messages are a stepping stone towards RCS (Rich Communication Services) that are being deployed by mobile networks worldwide.  RCS is seen as an eventual replacement to standard SMS services and combines the best of SMS with services generally offered by the instant messaging applications. Connect Mobile is a company that provides one of the most sophisticated SMS platforms in the world.  Brendan White, CEO and founder of Connect Mobile says: “We have created this platform to make it easy to sign up, buy credits for messages and then schedule and send them.  Our Genius SMS feature lets you add rich content, integrate with social media sharing and even include location information into the message”. The location feature lets you pin the physical location of your store/s, businesses, pay points etc. and will launch the smartphones navigator to give the customer real-time directions to your premises. “Our platform includes features that enforce regulatory compliance such as managed blacklists and has the best reporting and contact management in the industry.” Says White. “It’s important to note that all of these features come at the price of a standard SMS but add value by improving your response rates and providing vital business information on the performance of your campaign.” Connect Mobile is one of the leading mobile aggregators in Africa and delivers messages to over 900 operators around the world. Connect Mobile will be demonstrating their RCS technology at AfricaCom from 13 November 2018 in Cape Town. Sign up by clicking here. No company is too big or too small and they offer some of the most competitive prices in the industry. This article was published in partnership with Connect Mobile.