With the increasing demand for education and workforce learning solutions, organisations are adopting a culture of learning. In fact, adopting a learning culture is now a requirement for organisations earning an annual payroll of R500,000 or more. Moreover, upskilling the existing workforce is vital for securing a business’s future and ensuring it remains competitive, as skills shortages are a key threat to the future growth of South African businesses. If you or your employees are well trained, they will be more productive – which will lead to increased efficiency, and higher profits for your business. CTU Training Solutions makes a significant contribution to the development of IT skills in South Africa, as they are one of few providers that offer qualification-based programmes in the form of learnerships and internships aligned to SUSE, Microsoft, CompTIA and Apple certifications (amongst the most relevant and useful in the IT industry). When considering a training provider, it is important to choose one that has the capabilities and competencies to provide you with innovative and flexible solutions; solutions designed to meet the needs of your business and interchangeably help you reach your desired future business state. CTU boasts a complement of more than 50 certified instructors, 199 testing seats, over 145 training rooms across South Africa and is committed to continually evolve and adapt learning solutions to meet the growing need for greater accessibility and enhanced ease of obtaining essential business and IT-related skills. CTU also offers borderless training through its virtual instructor-led, self-based, on-demand, and blended learning methodologies. “South Africa is a unique market, and we understand that one-size does not fit all. Therefore, we have invested so much time in developing products that give customers the opportunity to obtain relevant skills that differentiate them in the market,” said Jadine van der Colff, Marketing Coordinator for CTU. “We have helped hundreds of organisations improve their technology implementation and deployment through skills analysis and training delivery.” This is what CTU customers have to say: HugeConnect formally Connectnet Broadband Wireless (Pty) Ltd now has made use of various courses over 3 years at CTU Training Solutions. “Our employees found the courses to be well presented, with training materials highly relevant to our work requirements. The courses are very informative, well received by our staff, and highly recommended. We are in the process of sending more students for additional courses which include the office suites,” said HugeConnect. “We have worked with CTU Training Solutions Pty Ltd since 2015, during which time they have provided our business with excellent support in the areas of recruitment, training, human resource development, consultative solutions, online training (VILT), workplace skills planning, national training, learnership projects, learning, and development. Their assistance in training and skills development has made a huge impact in our organization and helped with our commitment towards BBEEE. I can confidently recommend CTU Training Solutions as experts in their field and a reliable supplier,” said Raubex. To find out more, visit the CTU Training Solutions stand at this year’s MyBroadband Conference. This article was published in partnership with CTU Training Solutions.