MyBroadband recently showed that uncapped 10Mbps fibre and a Netflix subscription is now cheaper than a DStv Premium subscription. The fibre and Netflix combo came in at R838, while DStv Premium with the Access fee is priced at R899 per month. While there was much discussion around the price of DStv Premium and how its content offering compares against Netflix’s catalogue, there was another point brought up by many users – they cannot get fibre. There are many neighbourhoods, apartment blocks, and gated communities in South Africa that do not have access to fibre, which means that while prices go down and speeds go up, they cannot benefit from these services. This is where fixed-LTE packages step in, with providers like Telkom, Rain, and Cell C offering high-cap products with decent speeds. Telkom’s SmartBroadband Wireless LTE packages offer users anytime and Night Surfer (midnight to 07:00) data, while Cell C and Rain’s fixed-LTE packages are available through local ISPs. Telkom stated on its website that its LTE packages can reach download speeds of between 10-40Mbps, depending on coverage and whether a user selects an LTE or LTE-A service. Afrihost states that Rain’s LTE‑A network averages speeds between 10-50Mbps, while Cell C’s LTE-A network averages between 10-69Mbps. Netflix recommends a 5Mbps connection for full HD streaming, meaning fixed-LTE will let users watch content with ease. To see how DStv Premium with Access compares to a Netflix Premium account with a fixed-LTE package, we listed their prices in the table below. Unlike uncapped fibre, however, users have to play it more conservatively when using a capped LTE account. With top-up data starting at around R10 per GB for fixed-LTE services, going out of bundle or having to “recharge” is not a viable option for most users. If you live alone, a bit of self-control will allow you to fit in a decent amount of Netflix viewing along with normal online activities every month while using a 200GB cap. For multi-member households, though, this is unlikely to be the case. Netflix states on its support page that streaming content in HD will use up to 3GB per hour – meaning a weekend session of all your favourite shows can do serious damage to your cap.