After last month’s nail-biting 36-34 victory over the All Blacks – the Springboks’ first victory in New Zealand in nine years – you don’t want to miss out on their next clash. The Boks are out for blood in front of their home crowd on 6 October. If you can’t make it to Loftus Versfeld for the action, you can still livestream the match with your mates. You can catch the game on the big TV screen on SuperSport using your DStv Explora or smart TV, or even better, you can hang out around the braai and stream the match to your phone or tablet, using the DStv Now app. Here’s how it works: if you have a DStv Premium subscription, download the DStv Now app – there’s no additional cost to get it. It’s even possible for a family member to share their login details with you if you’re not a subscriber yourself. Then you can watch the match on SuperSport using the app on your own smartphone, tablet, supported smart TV or laptop (or via AirPlay or Chromecast). Just add Wi-Fi! Register for DStv Now here » DStv Now recently launched four new lean-back apps. These apps make it possible to turn any TV in the house into an easy-to-use DStv hub without the need for an Explora. Simply download the DStv Now app for any one of the following devices: You’re not always going to be on the couch when the big game is happening. You might be at that weekend braai or having a beer with the guys. With SuperSport on DStv Now you can stream any sport wherever you are – even those MotoGP qualifiers that are happening when you’re in bed at 2am. You don’t even need to be at home, you can watch the games on your laptop through the DStv Now website or on your phone using the app. DStv Now is basically an online version of DStv – it’s a way of watching sports and shows on your smartphone, tablet or laptop. Livestream some of the best DStv channels or use Catch Up to stream or download the latest episodes of your favourite shows and binge-watch entire seasons. Download the free DStv Now app for Android or iOS devices. Your access to channels on DStv Now depends on your DStv subscription – not all channels are available to all subscribers. Register for DStv Now This article was published in partnership with DStv Now.