Sars chief officer for digital and IT, Mmamathe Makhekhe-Mokhuane, has apologised for her conduct on SABC’s Morning Live and at the Nugent Commission of Inquiry earlier this week. This followed a public outcry about her lack of knowledge and poor communication skills in these interviews. In the SABC interview, Makhekhe-Mokhuane deflected questions by stating she only joined Sars in 2017. She did this on several occasions. She then started speaking about Sars bursaries for students and the outsourcing of cleaning employees, although the interview focused on IT restructuring. When the interviewer tried to get the discussion back on track, Makhekhe-Mokhuane replied: “Mam, can you give me protection from yourself.” Makhekhe-Mokhuane said she took time for deep personal reflection following her interview on Morning Live and subsequent appearance before the Nugent Commission on Wednesday. “My conduct, posture and demeanour may have given an impression of arrogance and unprofessionalism, and brought my competence and expertise into question,” she said. “This is unfortunate and regrettable. For this, I take full responsibility. I apologise to everyone who was disappointed or offended by how I handled both situations.” She said there was no excuse or justification for this and apologised unreservedly. Sars’ annual report for 2017/2018 revealed that Makhekhe-Mokhuane earned R3.067 million for 11 months work in the last financial year. Sars states that Makhekhe-Mokhuane is a seasoned IT professional with IT diplomas and an MBA from the University of North West. She has previously held the position of Chief Information Officer at the Department of Transport, Department of Communications, and the Department of Water and Sanitation, said Sars. According to a report in The Citizen, Finance Minister Tito Mboweni has been asked to look into whether Makhekhe-Mokhuane was qualified for her post. Outa CEO Wayne Duvenage said they are also looking into the state of affairs at Sars because of Makhekhe-Mokhuane’s conduct. The SABC TV interview is embedded below. <span data-mce-type="bookmark" style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;" class="mce_SELRES_start">﻿</span> 