Netflix is a firm favourite among South Africans. A recent MyBroadband survey revealed that 72% of respondents would choose Netflix over competing products, including DStv, Showmax, and Amazon Prime. Netflix is available in South Africa from R99 per month. The most expensive package – Netflix Premium – is R169 per month. The streaming service is also not too data intensive, and Netflix states that users can watch Full HD streams with a 5Mbps Internet connection. With its low pricing and reasonable data requirements, Netflix has become very popular in the country. Just how many Netflix subscribers there are in South Africa, however, is not public knowledge. DStv parent MultiChoice stated that it believes Netflix has grown to between 300,000 and 400,000 subscribers in South Africa. “That’s a significant number in two and a half years,” MultiChoice South Africa CEO Calvo Mawela told MyBroadband. Netflix launched in South Africa in January 2016. Statistics portal Statista has also previously given estimates on Netflix subscribers in South Africa. It estimates that, in 2018, Netflix has just over 152,000 subscribers in the country. This is predicted to grow substantially through 2020. Figures for 2018 show that Netflix now has 57.4 million subscribers in the US, and 72.8 million outside of the country. It must be noted that subscribers can share their accounts, and while an individual may pay for a Netflix subscription, they can let friends and family share the service. This can distort the “subscriber” figure compared to the “viewer” figure. It is not only Netflix’s subscriber numbers that have grown in recent years – its original content lineup and the volume of shows watched have increased too. Networking company Sandvine recently released a report on the amount of the world’s Internet traffic taken up by Netflix streaming, and it is truly impressive. The H1 2018 report states that around 15% of worldwide downstream traffic is attributed to Netflix. This makes it the number one downstream application worldwide. Netflix told MyBroadband it does not release subscriber numbers, and it declined to provide feedback on its South African subscriber numbers.