DStv offers an impressive range of content to viewers of all tastes, whether you want to catch up on the latest TV shows or watch the rugby live from your couch. This exceptional variety of channels can cause some conflict, with family and friends fighting over the remote to watch their favourite shows. There needn’t be any more fighting, however, as DStv subscribers can watch their favourite movies, live sports, and more on their smart devices for free. No extra costs are involved in watching DStv on multiple devices, as this feature is included in the monthly subscription. All DStv subscribers need to have is an active Internet connection to download the DStv Now app on their smartphone, tablet, laptop, or other smart device and begin watching their favourite DStv content. DStv subscribers can link and stream on up to four different smart devices simultaneously, in addition to watching on a TV connected to their decoder. The steps below outline how easy it is to set up the DStv Now app on your smart devices. The first step to setting up DStv Now is visiting the website at now.dstv.com, and following the prompts to create a username and password. After this simple process is complete, you will be able to download and log in to any compatible smart device with your details and begin streaming. Basically everything available on DStv is also available on the app, whether it’s live sport or your favourite series – there are even full seasons and box sets available. Watch the video below for more information:  A brief guide to setting up DStv on various devices is outlined below. Watching DStv on a standard TV is as simple as hooking it up to your DStv decoder. To get the most out of your subscription, we recommend getting the DStv Explora and connecting it to your home internet. This gives you access to additional features and Catch Up content and means you can watch the full Showmax catalogue on your TV. (Visit dstv.com/GetConnected for more information.) Open your browser, navigate to the DStv Now website at now.dstv.com and log in with your details. You can now stream content directly from within your browser, without the need to download a standalone app. Watching DStv on your smartphone is easy – simply download the Android or iOS DStv Now app, log in with your details, and start watching. Installing and logging in to DStv Now on your tablet works exactly as it does on your smartphone, just get the app. Both tablet and smartphone users can also download episodes to their devices and watch them offline when they are not connected to Wi-Fi. Modern smart TVs can support a variety of applications, including the DStv Now app. If your TV is connected to the Internet and has a supported operating system, you can download DStv Now directly to your TV and stream without any external hardware needed. Supported manufacturers include Samsung and LG, with Apple TV and Android media players also featuring support for the DStv Now app. Get started with your DStv Now experience right now by signing up on the official website. This article was published in partnership with DStv Now.