Dual-SIM devices can be useful for a variety of reasons, and one of the best ways to take advantage of them is to run multiple app accounts. For example, if you use a separate number for work and personal communication, you can set up one WhatsApp account for work and another for your friends and family. This can also be useful for concealing personal information from prying eyes when somebody else is using your smartphone. However, running both of these accounts on the same device can be difficult to figure out, especially if the feature is not natively supported by your device’s operating system. We have outlined how to set up two WhatsApp accounts on a smartphone below. Many smartphone manufacturers include their own native support for multiple versions of the same app. Samsung includes a Dual Messenger feature in the latest version of its operating system, which allows users to sign in to a second WhatsApp account without downloading any additional applications. EMUI, Huawei’s custom version of Android, has included a similar feature which allows you to duplicate apps at will. The feature is named App Twin and and can be used to duplicate apps such as Facebook and WhatsApp. Users can enable this feature from the Settings menu. Additionally, the company’s new Mate 20 Pro runs EMUI 9.0, and includes a feature which allows it to run an entirely separate smartphone interface in parallel, cloning multiple apps and creating separate photo galleries and profiles. For Android devices which do not include this feature, users can download a third-party app to allow them to duplicate other apps. A popular solution is Parallel Space, which allows the user to clone and run multiple accounts of the same app simultaneously, switching at the tap of a button. iOS devices unfortunately do not have access to the same native applications as their Android counterparts. If you are using an iPhone and want to run two instances of an application simultaneously, you are going to encounter far more obstacles. There are a number of listings for the Parallel Space app on iTunes, but the comments point to them being fake apps and the application’s website lists only an Android version. Jailbreaking the device may yield the ability to install apps which extend to this functionality, but this is not supported by Apple and could result in issues with your device. There is currently no native support in iOS for app cloning or using multiple accounts for the same application.