Huawei has revealed its new Mate 20 Pro smartphone at a media event in London. The Mate 20 Pro is the first device to be powered by Huawei’s 7nm Kirin 980 chipset. It is the manufacturer’s premium smartphone, boasting a number of cutting-edge features never before seen in its devices. It also sports a radical new design and impressive software suite built specifically to harness the power of Huawei’s 7nm chipset. Huawei also unveiled its new Watch GT smartwatch, which the company said will offer up to 14 days of standby usage on a single charge. Huawei has made a number of hardware changes with the Mate 20 Pro, including redesigning the camera system and removing the physical fingerprint sensor. The Mate 20 Pro’s Leica triple-camera system is arranged in a square at the back of the device, and includes both a telephoto and an ultra-wide angle lens for specialised photography. This allows for macro-focus photography at a range of only 2.5cm, and impressive ultra-wide shots of landscapes. When it comes to biometric authentication, Huawei has built a 24MP front-facing camera and a dot projector into the notch within the device’s curved OLED display. This allows for fast and accurate 3D facial recognition, which is much harder to fool than facial recognition using a standard 2D sensor. If users prefer using fingerprint recognition, however, the Mate 20 Pro features an in-screen fingerprint scanner that Huawei says is as fast as modern capacitive scanners. Below are the specifications of the Huawei Mate 20 Pro.  The hardware of Huawei’s Mate 20 Pro is not the only thing to be dramatically overhauled. Huawei has packed a number of impressive AI-powered features into the Mate 20 Pro, taking advantage of the Kirin 980’s dual-NPU to deliver impressive performance. Thanks to the smartphone’s HiVision-powered camera, users can identify the food they are eating, along with their meal’s estimated calorie count, simply by pointing their camera at their meal. The Mate 20 Pro’s camera can also dynamically subtract or add colour and effects from and to live video by using AI features to differentiate between objects on the fly. Huawei has also made some dramatic changes to the battery of its new device, upgrading the capacity to a whopping 4,200mAh. Additionally, using Huawei’s fast-charging technology, Mate 20 Pro owners will be able to charge their high-capacity batteries to 70% in just 30 minutes. Perhaps the most impressive feature Huawei has crammed into this device, however, is the ability to charge other smartphones wirelessly. Thanks to the Mate 20 Pro’s glass back and wireless charging hardware, the device can be used as a portable power bank for other devices. By enabling the option on the Mate 20 Pro and laying the device on its front, users can charge any Qi-compatible device by simply placing it on the back of the Mate 20 Pro. Huawei’s new Watch GT and Mate 20 Pro smartphone will be coming to South Africa soon after the international launch of the products. The Mate 20 Pro is priced at €1,049 and is available in selected countries in Europe from 16 October 2018.