The much-loved Doctor Who has returned this year for its 11th season – in fact, it holds the Guinness World Record for being the longest-running science fiction show in the world. It has won over 100 awards in its 55 years of running and is currently at position 100 on IMDB’s list of the top-rated TV shows of all time with a rating of 8.7/10. The much-anticipated season 11 is now streaming exclusively on Showmax in South Africa, with new episodes coming express from the UK every Monday. Whether you’re new to the world, or a dedicated fan, we have six reasons to tune in. Season 11 introduces Jodie Whittaker as the Thirteenth Doctor – a super-smart force of nature. The Doctor can change appearance by regenerating when near death. South Africans will remember Jodie from her role as Rose in the hit South African comedy White Wedding, as well as starring roles in hit international movies like Attack The Block.  The Thirteenth Doctor has three new friends to join her on her adventures in time and space: Ryan Sinclair (Tosin Cole from Star Wars: The Force Awakens), Yasmin Khan (Mandip Gill from The Good Karma Hospital), and Graham O’Brien (Bradley Walsh from Law & Order: UK). Their lives change forever when a mysterious woman, suffering from memory loss, falls from the night sky. Chris Chibnall will be running the show, which is not surprising at all considering his latest achievements. His last show was the BAFTA-winning crime drama Broadchurch, which starred Jodie Whittaker as a grieving mom dealing with the murder of her young son.  This season will see visual effects handled by Double Negative. Double Negative has won the VFX Oscar four times in the last eight years – for Blade Runner 2049 (2017), Ex Machina (2015), Interstellar (2014), and Inception (2010) – and this year’s VFX BAFTA for their work on Black Mirror.  Credit: BBC Studios To bring some South African context into the mix, season 11 was partly shot in Cape Town with South African service company Out of Africa Entertainment. “We were in South Africa for three weeks and had a lovely time. It was hot! Some of the locations, as you can see from the trailer and you’ll see in the episode, are amazing,” said Tosin Cole. At the time of writing, season 11 has a 100% critics rating on Rotten Tomatoes, and the series as a whole has upheld a 92% rating since 2006. It has also received amazing responses from some of the top critics: The Telegraph called Jodie Whittaker’s performance “a delight”, The Radio Times said “Doctor Who has never looked better”, and The Guardian called it “bold, cinematic” and “full of frights.” Make sure to tune in to season 11 of Doctor Who, exclusively streamed on Showmax in South Africa!  This article was published in partnership with Showmax.