Living-Water, London’s leading water cooler rental and natural spring water supplier offers an extensive range of affordable office water coolers to buy or rent across the UK. The two types of water coolers include mains-fed water coolers and bottled spring water dispensers. Depending on the model, you have the option of either natural spring water or filtered/purified mains cooled water in addition to boiling and ambient water. The top of the range water cooler provides an auto-sanitisation system, which allows the cooler to run through a 6-minute steam cleaning programme, however a variety of water coolers are available which all use state of the art technology and are designed to suit many pockets. Living-Water’s spring water is bottled and sourced in the Wenlock region, offering crystal clear natural spring water from a deep, underground source – which has been filtered through the geologically famous Wenlock rock strata. The long filtration process – which has taken place over millions of years – results in a refreshing, optimal tasting water that has a good balance of minerals. In addition to the exceptional service and perfectly filtrated water, Living-Water is an accredited member of the British Water Cooler Association (BWCA), which means adherence to strict rules and regulations, ensuring all coolers are of the highest standard when it comes to both technology and hygiene. Living-Water’s range of water coolers and dispensers are detailed below. Tailored to your company’s size, space, and required service schedule, Living-Water offers affordable bottled water coolers for hire or purchase. The bottled water cooler models available include floor standing, counter top, and water coolers with an additional hot water function. These units are available for purchase or lease on the Living-Water online store. In becoming a bottled spring water customer, you will qualify for three 18.9 litre bottles delivered to your location every month.  In addition Living-Water will collect empty bottles according to an agreed water delivery schedule. Customers can also order additional bottles as and when required or alter their pre-set stock level.  Living-Water’s great range of bottle-less mains-fed water coolers provides unlimited amounts of fresh, filtered chilled water whilst saving you up to 70% on your annual water costs. Available as floor standing, counter top, under counter and filter tap cooler solutions – mains-fed units can be customised to each client’s requirement.  Water cooler rentals for office or home are available from £1 per week, but you can order a free 7-day water machine trial – delivered within 48-hours, cost and obligation free. For more information, visit the Living Water website, or to request a quote for a water cooler system, please contact 0203 139 9051, or email info@living-water.co.uk. This article was published in partnership with Living-Water.