Netflix is available on a variety of platforms, from Android smartphones to smart TVs, and the platform accommodates a variety of viewing styles. Many of the service’s shows are available in up to 4K resolution, with the streaming resolution dynamically changing according to the capability of your display. The platform also attempts to use less data when streaming over a mobile connection without any significant loss in quality. However, one of the most interesting features Netflix offers is one which most people would overlook – its audio descriptions. Within most Netflix original shows and other select titles, there is an audio description option under the language audio menu. After selecting this option, a narrator will speak over the show and describe exactly what is happening on the screen. This feature is available on virtually all Netflix-supported devices, including: Netflix’s audio descriptions are great for viewers with vision problems, but the feature can also be useful to those who want to be entertained but can’t be distracted by a display. Audio descriptions essentially turn Netflix shows into audiobooks, allowing you to keep up with what is happening on-screen through a comprehensive narration of events. Whether this translates to an experience comparable to professional audiobooks is a wholly different issue, however. We loaded up Netflix’s audio descriptions on some of our favourite shows to test out how effective the feature was as an audiobook substitute to watching shows. Only certain shows support the high-quality audio descriptions offered by Netflix, but many others support audio descriptions delivered by CaptionMax. Our first experience with “Netflix audiobooks” saw us selecting a show at random (we chose Brooklyn Nine-Nine), enabling audio description, and listening to the show while the video was minimised. This used CaptionMax and provided basic information only. While it may provide some assistance to the visually-impaired, it did not provide an “audiobook”  experience. Subsequently, we decided to peruse other shows for which Netflix supports audio descriptions, which is accessible through www.netflix.com/browse/audio-description. This selection includes popular shows such as Stranger Things, Lucifer, Altered Carbon, and Sherlock. We listened to a few of these shows with audio descriptions enabled, and we were seriously impressed by the quality of some of the narrations. Narrations for Netflix shows such as Altered Carbon, Stranger Things, and Operation Finale are extremely thorough and provide a genuine audiobook experience. Some of the shows’ narrations in this category are worse than others, but a number of the Netflix titles we listened to provided an excellent listening experience. You may have to try out a number of different shows, but once you find a narration you like, you could easily listen to it on your daily commute or in your spare time instead of an audiobook.