Absa Group became one of the first large corporates to use the .Africa domain by changing its website address to www.absa.africa. The .Africa domain was launched just more than a year ago, and is widely promoted by the African Union to support and develop business on the African continent. Absa said that this adoption was not without its challenges, and there were several things Absa learnt from adopting the .Africa domain. When Absa began the process of migrating its online information to its new domain, it was not even a year old. No other large corporate adopted .Africa, leaving Absa on its own to figure out how to best transfer data, integrate the new domain, and enable top-tier cyber protection. The process differs from that which would have applied to moving information to another traditional domain name. Absa had to not only set up the new domain and all its security protocols, but also migrate almost 60,000 email addresses while minimising downtime. The transfer of data and email addresses was by far one of the most complex aspects of the process, and Absa’s teams have transferred over 6 000 accounts since 11 July 2018, according to Absa’s brand technology lead Craig du Toit. Newer domains are also not generally on whitelists – which ensures users can easily access websites with more traditional domains – even if they are publicly supported by credible organisations such as the African Union. However, traditional domains are oversubscribed, and newer domains give corporates like Absa the opportunity to open options for themselves, it said. Knowing that trademark and copyright protection are vital to any brand, Absa registered more than 400 additional domains as part of a wider defensive strategy against those that buy domains they do not intend to use. Absa looked to other large corporates that have successfully migrated domains for guidance on policies and procedures, as the company had to change its domain from that of Barclays Africa to a name resembling its African identity. However, Absa discovered that there is no policy to follow, considering other large corporates have moved their domain, but never to one as unknown as .Africa. Absa developed an email and domain naming policy from scratch, specifically to ensure there were no issues when assigning email addresses.