Google has unveiled its new Pixel 3 and Pixel 3 XL smartphones, which are set to launch later this month. The Pixel 3 includes a number of AI-powered camera and accessibility features, including the ability to automatically select the best camera shot possible out of multiple images captured by the device. Pixel 3 and older Pixels also support a new software feature which drastically improves low-light shots, and the latest smartphone sports a pair of front-facing cameras for improved selfie quality. Additionally, the Pixel 3’s Assistant can now automatically answer calls and transcribe the conversation in real time, allowing you to identify potential scam calls without answering your phone. Google’s standard Pixel 3 sports a similar design to last year’s device, but the larger Pixel 3 XL now features an edge-to-edge OLED display with a notch at the top. The Pixel 3 is positioned to compete with the high-end iPhone Xs from Apple as well as Samsung’s Galaxy S9 flagship smartphone. Each of these flagships has their own unique features, with the Pixel focusing on AI integration and intelligent software features. Apple’s iPhone Xs Max retains the Face ID feature present in the iPhone X, while sporting an IP68 rating and an improved rear camera system. The biggest difference when considering Apple’s iPhone Xs in relation to the Google and Samsung devices is its iOS 12 operating system. These smartphones offer relatively similar specifications, and many users would choose between the Android and iOS devices based on the ecosystem they prefer. Samsung’s Galaxy S9 and Google’s Pixel 3 both have fingerprint sensors on their back panels in addition to advanced camera systems. The Galaxy S9 features a primary rear camera with variable aperture, allowing for superior low-light shots, and also sports Samsung’s curved Infinity display. Google’s Pixel 3 will not officially be coming to South Africa, but both the iPhone Xs and Galaxy S9 are currently available for purchase locally. We compared the specifications and pricing of the Google Pixel 3, Apple iPhone Xs, and Samsung Galaxy S9 below.    