An MTN subscriber recently contacted MyBroadband after struggling to get the mobile operator to unsubscribe them from a wireless application service provider (WASP) that was billing them. The MTN client said they had not authorised the subscription to the premium content service they were being billed for. Since the end of 2013, all South Africa’s mobile network operators use a double opt-in system for WASPs. MTN investigated the incident and found that the subscriber had fallen prey to clickjacking. To avoid being fraudulently subscribed to a WASP, South Africa’s mobile network operators offer a way to block premium content subscriptions. Cell C and Telkom allow you to block WASPs through an automated system. Vodacom requires that subscribers call customer care. MTN also lets users block premium-rated services. MyBroadband tested several WASP-blocking systems earlier this year, and they worked as advertised. Here is how you can stop premium content services on your phone. Using the USSD string *133*1#, Cell C subscribers can block all existing and future content billing. Telkom allows you to block all WASP subscriptions by enabling a setting in the Telkom app. Log into the app and navigate to My Products > Manage > Protect Your Mobile Number, and set it to “On”. To manage premium content subscriptions, navigate to My Products > Subscriptions > Content Services. Vodacom users can unsubscribe from all WASP services by sending “STOP ALL” to 31050. If you are subscribed to WASP services, you should receive the response indicating that your request to unsubscribe has been received. You should then receive messages confirming that you have been unsubscribed. The network operator said that it is possible to block all future WASP subscriptions by calling customer care (135). MTN has four separate USSD strings to manage premium content subscriptions, each of which needs to be accessed for a user to check if they are subscribed to any WASPs. These USSD strings are: Users can block premium-rated services such as WASPs by following the steps below: