Black Friday will take place on 23 November this year, with a wide range of goods being heavily discounted by numerous retailers. Many South Africans will be looking to get a great deal on everything from a brand-new TV to small household appliances. Tech enthusiasts should also benefit from the ubiquitous specials, with many local retailers planning to offer discounts on the latest hardware. MyBroadband spoke to Raru, Rebel Tech, and Wootware about the specials they will be offering on PC hardware over Black Friday. Raru director Neil Smith told MyBroadband that the company has not yet determined its product list for the Black Friday sale, but would be able to provide more information going forward. “We will be running a Black Friday sale, but it is still too early to know exactly what all will be on sale,” Smith said. “Closer to the time we will have more details available.” Wootware founder Rory Magee confirmed that the retailer would host a Black Friday sale, with discounts on a variety of products. “We will definitely be running specials then, though we’re likely to start specials during the run-up to Black Friday as well,” Magee said. “We are going to look at having a good mix of products to be featured, across our most relevant categories.” Rebel Tech founder Rune Ravnsborg told MyBroadband that the retailer will be hosting a Black Friday Sale for one day only. Last year, all the retailers above had Black Friday sales, with many offering substantial discounts on PC hardware, games, and other gadgets. Raru hosted a number of flash sales throughout the day, with rotating specials across all product categories. Wootware and Rebel Tech applied price cuts to a selection of PC hardware products, allowing gamers to pick up graphics cards, CPUs, and more at bargain prices. This year, we expect to see some discounted prices for hardware which has been released for some time, and in some cases, superceded by new generations. For example, first-generation AMD Ryzen processors remain powerful and impressive chips, but the launch of a second generation this year means we could see some price cuts on the older chips. The same could be said of Nvidia’s GTX 10 Series graphics cards, with the high-end devices being outshone by the new RTX series cards. PC hardware prices can be volatile, however, and the weakening rand may affect any expected discounts. One thing is for certain: PC gamers should keep an eye on these retailers over the Black Friday period.