An unknown party has hijacked the ANC’s Thuma Mina campaign, with a website promoting “jail time for state capture” with photos of Malusi Gigaba, Ajay Gupta, Ace Magashule, Gwede Mantashe, and Duduzane Zuma. “Corruption has, for too long, been crippling South Africa. The great potential of our country has not been realised because the ANC has decided it is their time to eat,” the website states. “The Capture of our country and its resources meant for its people has been facilitated by key individuals in the ANC.” It states that this is a crime, and that those who are implicated in this theft must be punished and sent “nowhere else but prison”. “If the ANC was serious about combating corruption, they would send the likes of Gigaba, Mantashe, and Magashule to jail, not reward them with cabinet and leadership positions,” the website states. “The ANC should hang their head in shame for what they have done to our country. #ThumaBona to Jail for State Capture.”  The official Thuma Mina campaign was launched by President Cyril Ramaphosa, and is described as “reconnecting with the people through activities that improve people’s lives and solve the problems they face”. “We are committed to working with the people to create a better life for all and improve our communities,” the ANC said. Through this campaign, the party said it will work in partnerships for change with all community organisations and sectors. In June, Ramaphosa urged South African professionals to join the Thuma Mina campaign in the government and ANC’s quest to build the country. The Thuma Mina website was launched by an unknown party or person, without any identifiable information on the website or domain registration. The website is promoted through programmatic online advertising, which shows that the campaign has funding available. The programmatic ads run the faces of Gigaba, Gupta, Magashule, Mantashe, and Zuma, with the payoff line “#Thumamina To Prison For State Capture”. Below is a screenshot of the Thuma Mina advertisement which is displayed on the Time.com website. 