On the opening day of HUAWEI CONNECT 2018, Huawei released the Smart Campus Solution and redefined campuses from three perspectives: smart mode, operational mode, campus space, and business value. Huawei aims to build secure, comfortable, efficient, green, and smart campuses. At this event in the global ICT industry, Huawei has discussed with industry vendors how to grasp future trends, seize opportunities, promote the digital transformation of campuses, and achieve new growth as new technologies are emerging. Currently, all industries are undergoing digital transformation. Digital transformation has become an irresistible trend. Huawei is a leading vendor in the traditional ICT infrastructure field and also gains experience and advantages in developing advanced technical solutions. Huawei’s Smart Campus Solution enables a smart mode by leveraging cloud computing, big data, the Internet of Things (IoT), and artificial intelligence, which is more than digitalization. It innovates the campus operational mode and shifts it from planned to on-demand, making operating status visualized, manageable, and controllable. The solution also redefines campus space and creates virtual communities, breaking the restraints of physical campuses. Additionally, the solution redefines business value, aiming to help enterprise customers develop hybrid businesses instead of a single business by unleashing potential through transactions and sharing. Yu Dong, President of the Industry Marketing & Solution Dept of Huawei Enterprise BG, said, “A campus plays an important role in digital transformation. By building smart campuses, enterprises can better understand customer requirements and then provide extensive, customized, and efficient services. We believe that each industry should establish its own platform; therefore, Huawei is committed to building a platform for platforms. Adhering to our strategy of ‘Platform + Ecosystem’, Huawei builds a Smart Campus Digitalization Platform to help customers in various industries achieve digital transformation and construct future-oriented smart campus.” Building smart campuses is one of the best routes for enterprise digital transformation and key to solving traditional issues. Enterprises can then break system silos, master and dominate business innovation, improve operational revenue, update business concepts, and change business types. This is Huawei’s core concept on campuses. Huawei’s Smart Campus Digitalization Platform has the following four features: Huawei is willing to drive enterprises’ digital transformation with customers based on the platforms. At present, 211 enterprises out of Fortune Global 500 and 48 enterprises out of Fortune Global 100 have chosen Huawei as their digital transformation partner. HUAWEI CONNECT 2018 – “Activate Intelligence” – is held at the Shanghai World Expo Exhibition and Convention Center and Expo Center from October 10 to 12. This year’s HUAWEI CONNECT conference is designed to help all businesses and organizations step over the threshold and stake their claim in the intelligent world. You will be joined by the best minds in the industry – including global ICT leaders, industry experts, and ecosystem partners – to chart the way forward and explore new opportunities. Huawei’s Smart Campus Booth is located in Hall 3. For more information, please visit the Huawei website. This article was published in partnership with Huawei.