The largest public Wi-Fi provider on the African continent, VAST Networks (VAST), has again secured an impressive spot on the global ICT stage through its nomination for two, leading global awards. For the second, consecutive year, VAST’s excellence in innovation, its forward-thinking capabilities and overall excellence in ICT have been recognised with nominations by the 2018 Wireless Broadband Alliance (WBA) Industry Awards (Best Business Wireless Service Innovation Award) and 2018 Wi-Fi NOW Awards (Best Wi-Fi Service Provider Award). The highly acclaimed awards, which receive entries from the most progressive and influential global ICT businesses and is a showcase of only the highest achievements, is a compliment to VAST’s expertise in developing the continent’s first, true carrier-grade offload network. This is the second year running that VAST has been nominated at the WBA Industry and Wi-Fi NOW awards and in 2017, the company also bagged the coveted Best Wi-Fi Service Provider and Affordable Connectivity awards. “We are proud to be pioneering a fundamental shift through our innovations and are particularly excited about the opportunities our Wi-Fi offload platform creates for seamless delivery of high-speed indoor connectivity,” explains Grant Marais, Chief Executive Officer at VAST Networks. “With spectrum availability a critical challenge in South Africa, this is inhibiting the ability of operators to offer more competitive rates for Internet connectivity. Our technology is able to seamlessly move traffic off the networks of mobile operators and onto our secure Wi-Fi network, freeing up valuable, scarce spectrum.” “The service is active across our network of more than 2,500 locations which vary from international airports to shopping malls to township communities. Essentially, this can contribute towards expanding access to 4G services and accelerating the roll-out of 5G, further supporting our goal of quality and affordable ubiquitous access for all South Africans as well as enhancing the country’s global competitive ranking,” added Marais. Already VAST has established the best wholesale-ready Wi-Fi network in the world, navigating several challenges of infrastructure inadequacy along its journey. A first globally, the design and execution of an offload model of this magnitude is revolutionary and further elevates VAST’s global position as pioneers. While the view might be that South Africa often borrows best practice, VAST has flipped this dynamic on its head by attracting interest from operators in the most developed countries globally. “Our technology is pioneering, cost-effective to implement and thus commercially viable for any network. It is easy to scale, seamless and allows for a robust set of services. Already, in our bid to progress the industry and add value across societies in different geographies, we are consulting to international operators in the most developed markets who are keen to introduce the technology in their respective countries. I am immensely proud of our team for consistently delivering ground-breaking offerings and for their role in ensuring VAST remains a strong global contender,” explained Khetan Gajjar, Chief Technical Officer at VAST Networks. This article was published in partnership with Vast Networks.