Netshield South Africa recently launched the latest version of its Nviromon monitoring and control gateway – the Nviromon Ulti-1S. The Nviromon Ulti-1S delivers a complete IoT-enabled gateway solution, including support for traditional SNMP manageability and powerful intelligent features. The device supports monitoring and management of connected hardware within any control environment, and is a key enabler for customers to migrate from traditional SNMP-managed environments to a cutting-edge IoT platform. “This product is an environmental monitoring and control gateway that services today’s phenomenon of collaborative sensing and intelligent control, at the point of presence of the installation,” said Netshield South Africa CEO Inus Dreckmeyr. The Nviromon Ulti-1S sports a compact form factor, occupying only 1U rack space, making it easy to integrate into an existing server environment. “The true benefit of the Nviromon Ulti-1S is that it is enhanced as an intelligent gateway and is able to control local events, send alerts, as well as relay all events – either singularly or simultaneously, through IoT based or/and SNMP protocols to your IoT/cloud or private networked database-based servers, for storage and big data analysis,” said Dreckmeyr. Thanks to the extensive capabilities of the Nviromon Ulti-1S, it can be implemented as a single solution to monitor and control multiple systems. The Nviromon Ulti-1S boasts impressive features which encompass a number of areas, including: Netshield has improved the environmental monitoring capabilities of the Nviromon Ulti-1S with the latest product iteration, and this monitoring or control can now be conducted through a remote IO probe or protocol conversion probe. This allows you to receive a holistic view of all systems in the environment, removing any unnecessary complexity from third-party devices. The Nviromon Ulti-1S can also monitor and control HVAC and air conditioning systems, and it can be used to share the cooling load of each unit by cycling the hardware periodically to balance usage. Heightened integration with access control delivers improved security monitoring for highly-secure sites and buildings. Access can be controlled using RFID, biometrics, and keypads, and support for IP cameras allows the security of a site to be observed and controlled remotely. The Nviromon Ulti-1S is compatible with existing systems and various third-party devices, including fire panels from third-party vendors. Thanks to its comprehensive fire monitoring system, the device can send real-time notifications of alerts and events to centralised monitoring systems, and control emergency procedures which are triggered in the event of a fire. Additionally, the Nviromon Ulti-1S can be linked to various power-related hardware, including power supplies, generators, rectifiers, and surge protection elements, with their status and pre-defined event triggers being monitored and broadcast. The networking features offered by the gateway are impressive, with an out-of-band GSM/LTE or Lora/Sigfox/NB-IoT connection being used as a backup communication link for relaying critical alerts and events. “In the event of an alarm, or an environmentally triggered event within your data centre, the system will first establish the user-defined severity,” Dreckmeyr said. “This can be set as either critical, major or minor, and react according to the users defined pre-set procedure.” Netshield offers bespoke solutions for customers looking to implement advanced monitoring and control systems in their existing environments, allowing them to migrate to cloud-based systems at their own pace with existing systems acting as the base layer for their migration. The company’s Nviromon Ulti-1S is perfect for this type of implementation, with a wide variety of features that can be leveraged to migrate traditional environments frictionlessly to a cloud-based, streamlined platform. For more information, visit the Netshield website. This article was published in partnership with Netshield.