Ciena has recently unveiled Waveserver Ai, a supercharged version of our Waveserver platform imbedded with our latest WaveLogic Ai. Waveserver Ai is purpose-built to address the rapidly growing requirements of data centre interconnect (DCI) networks, where a mix of cloud, OTT and data applications are driving the need for efficient, ultra-high capacity transport. Waveserver Ai brings unprecedented levels of scale and efficiencies to DCI, capable of up to 400Gbps per wavelength and 2.4 Terabits of client plus 2.4 Terabits of line capacity in a single rack unit – by far the highest capacity for a 1RU platform in the industry. This dramatically increases total potential fibre capacity to 30Tbps in flexible grid networks.  With capacity and efficiency paramount in today’s DCI market, Waveserver Ai leverages our new WaveLogic Ai coherent chipset to enable DCI at any distance. It scales from metro to long haul and has the performance to maximize capacity for any distance.  This gives operators the ability to upgrade shorter metro links from 200Gbps to 400Gbps or increase capacity from 100Gbps to 200Gbps across the long-haul. Waveserver Ai’s compact 1RU platform can be used to reduce footprint in rack and stack deployments, and its ultra-low power consumption reduces ongoing energy costs. Waveserver Ai delivers more than just raw capacity.  The platform includes a server-like operational model and web-scale IT toolset that allows ICPs and data centre operators to tackle scalability and automation challenges for DCI applications. Waveserver Ai supports a suite of industry standard open APIs such as REST, NETCONF, and gRPC to ease integration into existing operational processes – and can be managed through Ciena’s new Blue Planet MCP software. Waveserver Ai, available for wide customer deployment since Q2 2017, builds on the success of the Waveserver family, which has already been deployed by more than 35 customers since its introduction roughly two years ago. Waveserver Ai is designed to address evolving density and power requirements for ultra-high-capacity interconnect applications. It features the simplicity and ease of deployment that Waveserver products are known for. Waveserver Ai’s modular architecture offers both rack-and-stack simplicity as well as pay-as-you grow scalability. And because it incorporates Ciena’s WaveLogic Ai coherent optical technology, it delivers the scalability required to satisfy the largest interconnect requirements—from metro to ultra-long-haul distances. Easy operation. Seamless integration into existing networks. Mass deployment of on-demand cloud and high-capacity connectivity services facilitation. Waveserver Ai’s full suite of management interfaces and open APIs make it all possible. Waveserver Ai is built to offer a simple, server-like deployment and operational model. Intuitive to install and easy to operate, it allows customers to manage the platform in a way that fits with their operations—through Ciena’s rich management software—Blue Planet, Manage, Control and Plan (MCP)—or directly through its open APIs. Waveserver Ai gives you the freedom to focus on growing your core business rather than wasting effort on complex operations and integration.  To learn more about Waveserver Ai, please contact Werner Kuschke of Adcomtec 0836502393 wernerk@adcomtec.co.za and download the Waveserver Ai data sheet here. This article was published in partnership with Adcomtec.