The annual Nutanix .NEXT user conference, which recently took place in Johannesburg and will also be held in Cape Town on 11 October, offers delegates an incredible line-up of industry leaders, visionaries, and product experts discussing what is making waves in IT. Speaking at the Johannesburg conference, Venugopal Pai, Vice President of Customer Success at Nutanix, noted that key technologies which support digital transformation include APIs, cloud adoption, and extended infrastructure management – trends which have also been cited by Gartner in 2018. According to Gartner, digital transformation requires IT agility and velocity that outstrips classical architectures and practices. “This year IT is increasingly tasked with supporting complex, distributed applications using new technologies that are spread across systems in multiple locations, including on-premises data centres, the public cloud and hosting providers,” said Gartner. As a leader in the Gartner Magic Quadrant, Forrester Wave, and in the IDC Market Share report, Nutanix is on a journey to bring a level of consolation that provides the agility many believe can only be acquired by moving to the cloud. According to Pai, what drives Nutanix, is not their competition, but rather the pace of innovation that everybody has to deal with every day. “Innovation gives back time and efficiency, so you can spend time on things that are more productive and more important to you. This is also the why of change – providing relief of dependence so you can do things that are much more valuable.” In order to reach a point of independence, businesses need to become digitally transformed. However, companies with multiple layers in a hardware-based infrastructure adds complexity to IT, slowing down the agility the business demands. Organisations therefore need to think about what agility means to their business demands. The concept of cloud opens the opportunity to evaluate what business demands can be met by IT and how it they can be reached. Businesses with a datacentre that needs to be reinvented can transform themselves by becoming more software-based – which will also improve agility. Nutanix’s mission is to build a software platform that hides all the complexity of AWS, Azure, Google, and IoT, so you can focus on the business while giving you the freedom to choose the right cloud for each application. Nutanix Enterprise Cloud OS provides the performance, resilience and scalability to power all workloads – virtualised, container-based, and bare metal. IT managers and application teams can improve operational efficiency with built-in services, including native file services, integrated application marketplace, block storage capabilities, and more. “We’re on this journey of making enterprise computing invisible and getting rid of complexity and converged things, by building an operating system that spans all these layers of edge, datacentre, cloud, appliance, software, containers, virtualisation, IoT, and moving it to a world where all of that complexity are extracted away with one click,” said Pai. The company converts datacentre infrastructure to software, allowing you to manage applications by using cloud-like architectures, in order to make life simple in the datacentre, and across a multi-cloud architecture.” For more information, visit the Nutanix website. This article was published in partnership with Nutanix.