Huawei has officially launched its high-end Mate 20 Pro smartphone in South Africa. The device is set to compete against Samsung’s Galaxy Note 9 and Apple’s iPhone Xs Max, offering the latest cutting-edge features. Huawei’s Mate 20 Pro is available on contract from R699 per month or a recommended retail price of R18,999. Its competitors, the Galaxy Note 9 and iPhone Xs Max, are priced from R18,999 and R23,999 respectively. Speaking in an interview with MyBroadband, Huawei South Africa CTO Akhram Mohamed said the Mate 20 Pro offers great features at much better value than its competitors. Mohamed said Huawei positioned the Mate 20 Pro as the “Android King” of 2018, thanks to its revolutionary technology. “If you look at the industry right now, both Android and iOS, change is pretty small compared to previous generations,” Mohamed said. He noted that Apple released an “S” model, and there have been very few game-changing devices from competitors. “We are coming through with a product that is really powerful, has exciting new features and applications, but more than that – the pricing is coming at the right level,” Mohamed said. “You are getting so much more for what you are paying, so it is no longer just the price tag that dictates whether it is a premium phone or not.” He said that from a value offering perspective, Huawei strongly feels that the Mate 20 Pro is the best compared to its high-end competitors. “The price this device is coming in at is not ridiculously low, it is not a cheap phone,” Mohamed noted. “But in comparison to everything else that’s on the market and what you are getting for it, I think it is a no-brainer right now for consumer choice.” According to Mohamed, Huawei is continuing to take market share from competitors in the high-end smartphone market, with consumers beginning to understand that the company offers the best value for money. Both Huawei’s Mate 20 Pro and Apple’s iPhone Xs Max boast 3D facial recognition and 7nm processors with superior performance compared to previous generations. The Mate 20 Pro outpaces the iPhone Xs Max in both display resolution and camera systems however, with the device’s triple-lens Leica primary camera offering superior picture quality. Apple’s iPhone Xs Max runs iOS 12, while Huawei’s device features EMUI 9.0, which runs on top of the latest version of Android. Huawei has also included an in-screen fingerprint sensor on the Mate 20 Pro in addition to facial recognition security, while the iPhone Xs Max features only facial recognition as a biometric security feature. Below are the specifications of the iPhone Xs Max and the Huawei Mate 20 Pro.  Samsung’s Galaxy Note 9 features an improved Bluetooth stylus and storage capacity of up to 512GB, compared to its predecessors. However, the Mate 20 Pro has a number of its own advantages over Samsung’s Galaxy Note 9 device, including its in-screen fingerprint sensor, larger battery capacity, AI-powered camera features, and reverse wireless charging. Both devices start off at the same price, with the Galaxy Note 9 reaching up to R23,999 for the 512GB model. Below are the specifications of the Huawei Mate 20 Pro and Samsung Galaxy Note 9. 