Huawei has launched its new high-end Mate 20 Pro, offering cutting-edge technology and competing with the best smartphones on the market. The Mate 20 Pro will be available in South Africa shortly in the weeks following its international launch, and is currently available for pre-order in a number of European countries. The device sports a selection of new and unique features, including a square rear triple-camera system, in-screen fingerprint sensor, and the ability to charge other devices using wireless power transfer. Huawei’s Mate 20 Pro also has an overhauled design that is similar to its two major competitors in many ways. The curved OLED display is reminiscent of Samsung’s Infinity Display sported by the Galaxy Note 9, while the notch at the top is very similar to the notch on the iPhone Xs Max. When it comes to processing power, Samsung’s Galaxy Note 9 is at a disadvantage compared to the iPhone Xs Max and the Mate 20 Pro, as it is the only one of the three without a 7nm processor. It also loses out slightly to the Mate 20 Pro in terms of battery capacity, but it boasts a higher maximum RAM and storage capacity, along with support for standard microSD cards. The Mate 20 Pro is also the only device out of the three flagships with a working in-screen fingerprint sensor, which is used in addition to 3D facial recognition to secure the device. While both the Mate 20 Pro and Galaxy Note 9 run Android – 9.0 and 8.0 respectively – the iPhone Xs Max runs the latest version of Apple’s operating system, iOS 12. These devices offer a range of unique features, but the biggest differentiating factor for many users would be their operating system and ecosystem. It is important to note that Huawei runs its own EMUI 9.0 skin over Android 9.0, which is very different to Samsung’s version of Android. Samsung’s Galaxy Note 9 is the only one of these devices to offer a built-in stylus, offering great utility to creative or professional users. Each of these devices is based on the latest design trends with the latest hardware packed inside, but each offers something quite unique, such as the Mate’s Leica triple-camera system, the iPhone’s ecosystem, and the Note’s Bluetooth stylus. We’ve compared the specifications and pricing of the devices below.  