RS Components (RS), the trading brand of Electrocomponents plc (LSE:ECM), a global multi-channel distributor, has announced that the Renesas Synergy MCUs and development kits from Renesas Electronics are now available from RS. The Renesas Synergy Platform is a fully qualified MCU hardware and software platform that enables faster time to market for a wide range of wireless and wired embedded IoT applications. Based on the popular Arm Cortex-M CPU architecture, Synergy MCUs mix-and-match over 70 different core functions and peripheral components, offering a wide choice of specifications. The Renesas Synergy Platform offers pin-to-pin compatibility between different MCUs with the same package, as well as peripheral and register compatibility across the entire MCU portfolio. This enables a high degree of software reuse when scaling between devices and applications, reduces PCB layout effort, and increases manufacturing efficiency. The Synergy family includes four MCU series offering secure connectivity and scaling levels of analogue capability. The S1 ultra-low power series, based on a 32 MHz Cortex-M0 processor core, is aimed at applications requiring long battery life and standby time, and robust safety. The S3 high-efficiency MCU series, running a 48 MHz Cortex-M4 core, delivers power-sensitive applications that need advanced timing control, safety self-testing, segment LCDs and capacitive touch control. For more demanding control applications, the 120 MHz Cortex-M4-based S5 high-integration series offers large memory capacity, serial memory expansion, highly accurate analogue capabilities, 2D colour LCD graphics, and additional safety functions. The S7 high-performance MCU series, with a 240 MHz Cortex-M4 core, can handle multiple high-speed secure connectivity channels simultaneously, drive a sophisticated colour display, perform high-precision control tasks, and sense analogue signals with high accuracy. The Synergy Software Package (SSP) is a complete software framework designed to simplify complex application development. SSP comprises shared APIs, a commercial real-time operating system (RTOS), a middleware suite, and libraries and low-level drivers qualified and maintained by Renesas. Two development environments are provided: e2 studio Integrated Solution Development Environment (ISDE), with GCC compiler and automatic code generation, and IAR Embedded Workbench to generate compact, fast running code. Other software tools include the TraceX visual runtime performance monitor, GUIX Studio for drag-and-drop graphical user interface (GUI) design, and the Synergy Standalone Configurator (SSC) for intuitive configuration of microcontroller functions, software assignments and operation modes. RS offers a range of Synergy development kits enabling access to all MCU pins. These allow design engineers to evaluate specific functions alongside supporting circuitry, use Pmod connectors to accelerate PCB prototyping, connect via Ethernet, USB, CAN bus, RS-232 or RS-485, and access additional peripherals. This article was published in partnership with RS Components.