Modern applications and infrastructure demand a more efficient, agile, and innovative service desk, as traditional IT Service Management (ITSM) solutions do not support the changing needs of today’s businesses. In fact, traditional IT service desks are complex and costly, deliver slow responses, require manual processes, and offer no choice of deployment. An efficient, agile, and innovative approach to ITSM is vital for IT organisations to increase the quality of services they provide, to improve speed and agility of the service desk, reduce the cost of IT operations and transform the way IT works to ultimately become the digital enterprise they aspire to be. For this reason, service providers need an ITSM solution that combines smart service desk, self-service with a modern user experience, codeless configuration, and flexible deployment options. To implement this approach, MicroFocus has launched an integrated solution called Service Management Automation X (SMAX). It serves as an application suite for IT service management, asset management, and enterprise service management built on a single platform, based on machine learning and analytics, and integrated with CMDB and Discovery. Built on container technology, it can be deployed in the private or public cloud. Its scalable multi-tenant architecture with deployment either on premise or cloud makes it easy to install, configure, and run. The solution supports all key ITIL process and best practices, and includes operational project management, application portfolio management, financial tracking, idea and proposal management, custom workflows for non-IT processes, and more. Below is an example of one of MicroFocus SMAX many success stories. EOH have invested in providing SMAX as-a-service to deliver as-a-service to their own customers but are working with partners across EMEA to provide hosting to those partners that instead want to focus on selling and delivering SMAX rather than provide the service themselves. An EOH client’s management recently changed their IT strategy, prompting that all IT will move to the cloud. And as an existing Service Manager customer, the request on the table was to look for a cloud-based service desk. The client evaluated several competitors, to assist them in expanding its ITSM solution to other groups in Africa and into the Enterprise Service Management domain. Combined with the cloud-first strategy, the new solution had to fulfil high standards for adaptability, scalability, intuitive user interface, and the flexibility to be hosted anywhere. Only MicroFocus SMAX fulfilled these criteria with its combined modules that provide an all-inclusive offering that competitors couldn’t. Expecting between 200 and 500 customers to use the SMAX portal simultaneously, the solution needed to increase the IT efficiency and understanding of its operational environment related to service management practices, which are spread across the enterprise. The EOH account team proved that SMAX fulfils the customer’s functional and non-functional requirements, including the delivery as-a-service. Features that stood out for this client were the service portal with virtual agent and end user chat, smart analytics – particularly smart ticketing, and automation. Thanks to its SMAX solution, MicroFocus has been named a leader in analyst firm Forrester’s Wave for Enterprise Service Management. Forrester identified the 12 most significant enterprise service management (ESM) providers and researched, analysed, and scored them based on 28 criteria. Download the Forrester report here. For more information, visit the Micro Focus website. This article was published in partnership with MicroFocus.