VS Gaming and Telkom moved the finals of the VS Gaming Masters and VS Gaming Championships from rAge to Comic Con Africa earlier this year. For many years, Telkom’s esports brand has been associated with rAge, where the finals have previously been held. This year, however, Telkom partnered with Reed Exhibitions to launch Comic Con Africa – and held the finals of their esports tournaments at this new event. Many gamers questioned this move, and wanted know why the tournament was moved from the gaming-dedicated event, to the comic-dedicated event. According to an industry source, there was much more to this move than what meets the eye. MyBroadband was informed that VS Gaming had in fact bought the rights to Comic Con in order to host the event in South Africa in partnership with Reed Exhibitions. This was a business move on VS Gaming’s part, as it gave them the chance to host their own competition events rather than hosting them at rAge. In the past, Telkom was required to rent the floor space for the event, which was rather costly considering the space they required for their stage. This cost would add up as they would not receive any profits for the event, as it was freely accessible to rAge attendees. Hence, VS Gaming reportedly moved the event to Comic Con Africa so that the attendees and vendors pulled in for both Comic Con Africa and the VS Gaming tournaments would pay off their costs for the rights and competition set-up, ultimately allowing them to retain their profits from the event. To find out more, MyBroadband asked Telkom about the industry reports. Telkom told MyBroadband it was their objective to grow interest and participation in esports in South Africa, and to do this they look at events that cater for all gaming and pop culture enthusiasts. “We always consider existing opportunities such as rAge against new opportunities such as Comic Con and the development of our own properties such as the VS Gaming Festival,” said Telkom. Telkom added that it partnered with Reed Pop and Reed Exhibitions to host both the Masters and the Championships at Comic Con Africa, giving their league participants and spectators a new finals venue and experience. “The partnership also allowed us to present new initiatives such as the business of gaming forum for greater involvement and understanding of the growing esport industry in SA,” Telkom said.