MiWay is not just about car insurance or insurance quotes. MiWay strives to give the best insurance service to its customers by always going above and beyond what is expected of them. As a major component of MiWay’s service offering, they enable you – the client – to “live your way” by giving you the power to do everything you need to do online – whether it’s via the MiWay website or the MiWay mobile app. These are the five ways MiWay saves you time and makes everyday interactions easier so that you can “live your way”. WeDrive is MiWay’s very own home-drive service, allowing you to get home safely in your own car after a night out on the town. Policyholders who have insured a car with MiWay and have the MiHelp option enabled have free access to this service. MiWay offers its clients emergency 24/7 help at the touch of a button through its app – for both Home and Roadside Assistance. Should you find yourself stuck on the side of the road, locked out of your house, or in some other emergency, MiWay’s App uses your mobile device’s GPS and location functionality to pinpoint your location so that MiWay can immediately send assistance to you. MiWay also offers MiHelp+, which is an emergency alert service [link to https://www.miway.co.za/emergency-alert] that makes use of a car tracking device that can detect a serious vehicle impact – so that an emergency response team can be dispatched to the location transmitted from the device in your vehicle. Submitting an insurance claim can be a rather confusing and stressful task. MiWay aims to remove a large chunk of this stress by letting you submit your claims online or through the MiWay mobile app. MiWay also lets you manage your policies at any time by using the website or the mobile app, where you can updated your policyholder details or add cover for your vehicle, home contents, or building – all at the touch of a button. When involved in an accident, it is often difficult to remember the details you need to gather for insurance claims. The MiWay Accident Scene feature guides you through the process – which will ensure you capture details of the accident’s date and location, the car(s) involved, and any other details normally required to submit an insurance claim. MiWay takes your insurance service above and beyond by giving you the chance to chat online with an agent. The live chat lets you contact an agent to manage your policies, whether you are busy multi-tasking, have no access to a telephone, or you just prefer chatting via a text-based service. Watch the video below, or visit the MiWay website for more information.  If you are interested in being contacted by MiWay, please fill in the form below. MiWay is a registered short-term insurer and an authorised FSP (No. 33970). Ts & Cs apply. This article was published in partnership with MiWay.