The way companies collect, store, and analyse data has changed drastically in recent years. Powered by the vast amount of storage space and processing power available on cloud platforms, companies have greater access than ever to cutting-edge analytics processes and unprecedented system efficiency. Vodacom managing executive for business solutions Chris Lazarus noted that the perspective of businesses towards data management has therefore changed drastically in recent years. “From a data perspective, the world is just going to get bigger, and that is what is going to feed this monster of online storage – not just in terms of holding capacity and capability, but intelligence,” Lazarus says. Thanks to the functionality and vast amount of resources offered by cloud platforms to businesses of all sizes, companies can now choose to handle their data in unique and exciting ways – while saving on costs. “We can’t just be keeping data for the sake of it… the bigger part of it is what do you do with the data, how you interpret it, and how it feeds you more information about your business,” Lazarus added. “I think online storage is going to be fed by this new hunger for data in terms of both consumption and the understanding of it.” Vodacom has been using data lakes and big data analytics for a number of years analyzing its own network and customer’s service consumption. We are able to plan our network expansions and tailor our bundle offering due to the deep insights these platforms provide us. Vodacom Business’s managed IT solutions provide clients with the capabilities of powerful cloud services while offering secure, locally-based management tools and flexible product combinations, he stated. On top of this, security must also be taken into account – and Lazarus likened the security of a company’s data to that of a residential home. While most houses have an electric fence, this is not usually enough to defend against all threats and would not be a sufficient solution for a large company. In the case of companies such as Vodacom, more than a simple firewall is needed. Subsequently, Vodacom ensures that its seven data centre environments provide high levels of redundancy and security in addition to the storage and processing capabilities to power its enterprise solutions. “Vodacom itself is a large organisation, and before we can think about selling services to our enterprise customers, we have to think about how to protect the organisation with its tens of millions of customers,” Lazarus said. Lazarus explains that with large organisations there are far more points of entry for potential attackers, and companies offering IT services should ensure that all their data is protected with every eventuality considered. In its mission to enable the digital migration of South African businesses – and all their valuable data – Vodacom offers clients a variety of cloud and hosting solutions, from managed dedicated servers, SAP HANA Cloud, private clouds and public clouds  Vodacom cloud services have been certified by SAP and Microsoft confirming that Vodacom has the specialist skills necessary to service and support customers on their cloud journey’s. By delivering a selection of flexible solutions tailored to individual consumers, Vodacom Business acts as a driving force behind the push for digitisation in South Africa, said Lazarus. Companies which require enterprise-grade Internet connectivity managed by a trusted provider can also  turn to Vodacom’s variety of offerings, which range from fibre and DSL lines to microwave and LTE networks. An increasing number of companies are migrating their operations to cloud-based environments through trusted partners in order to improve cost efficiency and reduce the workload on their own physical infrastructure, and Vodacom Business is making this a possibility for local companies. “The cloud has enabled users to take the operating capabilities that they need and change where and how they operate. The IT services haven’t changed, but the cost and efficiency of these services have changed,” said Lazarus. For more information, watch the video below. 