Laptop buyers looking for a portable but capable notebook should look no further than the latest Acer Swift 5. The Swift 5 sports an extremely thin, stylish chassis built from an ultra-light magnesium alloy which allows the device to weigh in at below 1kg. Despite its lightweight and portable design, the Acer Swift 5 boasts some impressive specifications and is up to handling most professional tasks effortlessly thanks to its Intel 8th-generation processor. The Swift 5’s design makes it an ideal companion for the travelling professional, and its impressive 8 hours of battery life mean you won’t find yourself stressing about the charge left in your laptop. Acer provided MyBroadband with an Acer Swift 5, allowing us to test out the device and dive in to some of its most impressive features. When it comes to hardware, the Acer Swift 5 has everything a professional user needs and more. The Swift 5 is available with a Core i5 or Core i7 processor, and both variants are more than powerful enough for standard compute tasks. The model we tested had an Intel Core i5-8250U inside, which boasts an impressive four physical cores and eight threads with a boost clock frequency of 3.40GHz. It is also important to note that the storage drive within the Acer Swift 5 is an M.2 SSD, which delivers far greater performance and data transfer speeds than a standard mechanical drive. A brushed magnesium alloy chassis and lightweight frame make Acer’s Swift 5 laptop a pleasure to use, whether for daily work tasks or more intensive applications. The device’s IPS LCD display panel delivers impressive picture quality with great contrast, and is perfect for watching videos and other media. Light gaming and other graphics-intensive operations also run well on the Swift 5, thanks to the power of Intel’s UHD Graphics 620 integrated GPU. Communicating while on the move is also made easier by the Acer Swift 5, with its built-in digital microphone and 720p webcam providing the perfect equipment to conduct high-quality Skype calls, even while away from the office. Wireless performance on the device was also stable and deliver great bandwidth, which can be partly attributed to the inclusion of 2×2 MIMO technology on the wireless adapter. Acer’s high-performance, lightweight, Swift 5 notebook is available in South Africa in both Core i5 and Core i7 models. Visit the Acer website for more information about the Swift 5 notebook.     This article was published in partnership with Acer.